---
fund: 34300
fund-name: Manufacturing Engineering Technology
file-name: 34300 Manufacturing Engineering Technology.docx
tags:
- David Pixton
---

## I. Overview

This policy covers the Manufacturing Engineering Technology Department within the School of Technology within the Ira A. Fulton College of Engineering and Technology. The Harold B. Lee Library supports the curricular and research needs of the department through monographic purchases and periodical and database subscriptions.

## II. Curriculum and Research

### A) Curriculum

Manufacturing Engineering Technology encompasses the research, planning, design and implementation of production facilities, machine tools, people and systems for the manufacture of discrete products of specified quality with a minimum expenditure of time, labor and materials. The profession ranges from solving specific process problems to deciding where to build a new factory (and how to equip and staff it). Some specific duties include:

- Solving practical problems in manufacturing
- Designing tools and fixtures used with manufacturing processes.
- Managing people and money in projects and processes
- Writing procedures for fabrication and assembly operations.
- Improving the quality and efficiency of an existing production line
- Serving on teams to develop new products, provide expertise on manufacturing questions, and plan manufacturing operations and estimating production costs.

The department is geared toward teaching students how to use certain technologies, methods, and tools to produce affordable products of high quality through coursework that insists upon developing creative and analytical skills as well as communication and interpersonal skills. The program offers a Bachelor of Science degree in Manufacturing Engineering Technology, a MS in Manufacturing Systems, and a joint MS/MBA in Manufacturing Systems through the Ira R. Fulton College of Engineering. There are 8 full-time faculty members in the department.

### B) Research

The department emphasizes development and research in various areas supported by the following labs: machining lab, CNC machine lab, automation lab, welding &amp; foundry lab, quality lab, and a plastics and composites lab which contains two injection molding systems, a plastic extruder, compression molder, a rotational molder, a vacuum former, and composite layup stations. The department sponsors, through the Kennedy Center, a Manufacturing Engineering Technology internship in Asia.

## III. Subject and Formats

### A) Scope

The library collects Manufacturing Engineering Technology monographs and periodicals on theory and practice at a level 4 (research) to support the faculty and students and common texts on a level 2 (selective) to support demand. Other subject areas are also collected on a level 3 (curricular).

### B) Type

Original research, abstracts, reference works are collected. Compendex, the search engine representing the collective indexing work of the Engineering Index® is the preferred index for periodical literature, however a number of other databases provide excellent entries into the literature including ProQuest&#39;s Materials Research Database, ProQuest Research Library: Science and Technology. Popular treatments, textbooks, and course materials are collected selectively. Other types are generally not collected

### C) Format

Monographs, serials in electronic form are collected preferentially. Audiovisual materials are collected selectively. Microforms and manuscripts are generally not collected.

### D) Time

Materials published during the last 10 years are collected extensively. Materials published during the previous 20-30 years are collected very selectively. Materials published prior to 1950 are generally not collected.

### E) Languages

English is the preferred language and is collected extensively. Other languages are generally excluded or collected very selectively based on unique content that has not been translated into English

### F) Geographic Focus

No particular area of the World is favored however most materials come from North America and Europe.

## IV. Other

### A) Related Collections and Overlap

There is overlap in many other areas such as mechanical engineering and design, but are considered part of the collection development policy for this discipline only when applicable. Theory is separate and is generally found only in the Manufacturing Engineering Technology literature.

### B) Cooperative resources and programs

Various consortia arrangements on a library wide scale have been entered into to ensure full text availability of periodicals and other collections.

## V. Classed Analysis

### Manufacturing Engineering Technology

#### Classed Analysis

| **LC Classification** | **Subject** | **Collecting Level** |
| --- | --- | --- |
| TS | Manufacturing Engineering Technology | |
| TS155-194 | Production management. Operations management | Research |
| TS195-198.8 | Packaging | Research |
| TS200-770 | Metal manufactures. Metalworking | Research |
| TS780-788 | Stonework | Teaching |
| TS840-915 | Wood products. Furniture | Research |
| TS920-937 | Chemical processing of wood | Research |
| TS940-1047 | Leather industries. Tanning | Research |
| TS1060-1070 | Furs | Teaching |
| TS1080-1268 | Paper manufacture and trade | Research |
| TS1300-1865 | Textile industries | Research |
| TS1870-1935 | Rubber industry | Research |
| TS1950-1982 | Animal products | Research |
| TS2120-2159 | Cereals and grain. Milling industry | Research |
| TS2220-2283 | Tobacco industry | Teaching |
| TS2284-2288 | Animal feeds and feed mills. Pet food industry | Research |
