---
fund: 34144
fund-name: Area Studies&ndash;Latin America
custom-fund: Funds 34134, 34144, 34223
custom-fund-name: Area Studies&ndash;Spain, Area Studies&ndash;Latin America, Spanish & Portuguese Langauge & Literature
file-name: 34144 Latin America.docx
tags:
 - Matthew Hill
---

## Overview

The Harold B. Lee Library's Spanish, Portuguese, and Latin American/Iberian Area Studies collections support the teaching and research needs of the Department of Spanish and Portuguese and the Latin American Studies Program. Primary patrons include undergraduate and graduate students and faculty studying Spanish and Portuguese language, culture, history, and literature, as well as various interdisciplinary programs and courses on campus. The collections support graduate studies in the areas of pedagogy, linguistics, and literature of Spanish- and Portuguese-speaking countries and peoples around the world.

## Degree Programs and Collecting Levels

The following programs represent the primary audiences for the HBLL's collection of materials Spanish, Portuguese, and the regions where these languages are spoken. Collecting levels for all areas below are "Teaching Level", providing support for advanced undergraduate and master's degree programs, as well as independent study.

### College of Humanities

#### Department of Spanish and Portuguese

- Spanish&mdash;B.A.
- Spanish Teaching&mdash;B.A.
- Spanish Translation&mdash;B.A.
- Hispanic Linguistics&mdash;**M.A.**
- Hispanic Literature&mdash;**M.A.**
- Spanish Pedagogy&mdash;**M.A.**
- Portuguese&mdash;B.A.

- Portuguese Linguistics&mdash;**M.A.**
- Luso-Brazilian Literature&mdash;**M.A.**
- Portuguese Pedagogy&mdash;**M.A.**

#### Kennedy Center for International Studies

- Latin American Studies&mdash;[B.A.](http://registrar.byu.edu/advisement/pdf/15/488040.pdf)

Within these programs there are emphases on the materials collected. While materials are collected for all countries of Latin America, the library collects more heavily for Mexico, Argentina, Brazil, and Bolivia. Items from Central America and the Caribbean are collected much more selectively. Literature, Literary Criticism, Linguistics, and History are the most important topical areas that are purchased for these collections. Materials on Native American languages and cultures, in addition to materials on and from Lusophone Africa, form significant sub-collections within the general collections. These collecting areas reflect the predominant research and teaching interests of the faculty, as well as consortia agreements to collect for certain areas.

In addition to the above programs and degrees outlined above, the materials from these collections reflect the teaching and research interests of faculty members, courses, and students from the following departments: Anthropology (Archaeology), Comparative Arts and Letters, Education, Geography, History, Law, Linguistics, Political Science, Sociology, and the Women's Studies Program.

## Areas of research interest

The faculty that deal with Spanish and Portuguese and the regions where these languages are spoken have diverse research interests, which include, but are by no means limited to, the following topics:

18<sup>th</sup> century Spanish Enlightenment; 19<sup>th</sup> and 20<sup>th</sup> century Luso-Brazilian poetry; 19<sup>th</sup> century Argentine history; 20<sup>th</sup> and 21<sup>st</sup> century Latin American film studies, especially Mexico;

Afro-Brazilian literature and cultures; Basque and Basque-American literature and culture, border literature and studies; Cesar Vallejo; colonial Latin America; Early Modern Spanish and Portuguese women, especially convent writers; corpus linguistics; counterculture in Latin American music; critical literary theory, ecocriticism in Latin American literature; environmental history of Brazil and Latin America; ethnoarchaeology; gender studies in Latin America; Guaraní language and culture; heritage speakers of Spanish in the US; historical romance linguistics; history of Mexico; inter-American literature and literary influence; Jazz in Spain and Latin America; Jorge Luis Borges;

Juan Rulfo; Lusophone African studies; Mesoamerican archaeology, especially Mexico and Guatemala; Mexican-American and Chicano studies; native American ethnohistory in Brazil; Spanish and Portuguese pedagogy; Quechua culture and sociolinguistics; second language acquisition of Spanish and Portuguese; technology in the foreign language classroom; sociolinguistics of the Dominican Republic; Spanish and Portuguese exploration in Asia; Spanish Golden Age theater; bilingualism and language contact in the US; and translation pedagogy and theory, among many other topics.

## Formats Collected

### Periodicals

Electronic format is preferred; print subscriptions are initiated or continued when online is not available or adequate, and depending on availability and preference by faculty and students.

### Books

Although electronic titles are generally preferred by the Library, print books are more common and more preferred by faculty and students in these fields of study. Print materials are predominantly monographic academic studies and literary works and criticism.

### Reference materials
These include bibliographies; encyclopedias; filmographies; biographical, thematic, and linguistic dictionaries; atlases and maps; and other materials. Print is acquired when online version is not available, stable, or adequate.

### Audiovisual materials
Spanish and Portuguese materials include musical recordings from all periods, regions, and genres; feature films and documentaries produced within or without and by musicians and/or filmmakers both native and foreign to the countries represented in these collections on topics that deal with issues in the countries of these regions. For music CDs are preferred, while for film DVD format is preferred.

## Languages collected

Materials collected are primarily in English, Spanish, and Portuguese. Materials in indigenous American languages and other European languages are also collected but on a more selective basis.

## Chronological Focus

Current material is primarily emphasized, with earlier or out-of-print materials collected to replace damaged or lost copies of significant works; in response to faculty or students requests; or to fill in a gap in existing collections.

Approval plans established for Latin American and Iberian materials

- Casalini Libri (Spain/Portugal)
- E. Iturriaga y Cia, S.A. (Peru)
- Librería Linardi y Risso (Uruguay/Paraguay)
- Libros Andinos (Chile/Bolivia/Ecuador/Colombia/Venezuela)
- Libros Argentinos para Todo el Mundo (Argentina)
- Libros de Barlovento (Dominican Republic/Puerto Rico)
- Libros Centroamericanos (Guatemala/El Salvador/Honduras/Nicaragua/Costa Rica/Panama/Belize)
- Libros de Todo México (Mexico)
- Retta Libros (Cuba)
- Susanne Bach Books from Brazil (Brazil)

## Annual Collection Reports

### 2016

- **Notable acquisitions (collections, journals, databases)**
    - In response to a faculty request, the library acquired on DVD the English and Spanish versions of the video collection _The Buried Mirror/El espejo enterrado_, created and narrated by prominent Mexican author Carlos Fuentes. This well-known video series contains a brief overview and interpretation of seminal events and issues in Latin American history and culture. It replaced the VHS portions of the series held by the library and completes the collection for both languages.
- **New electronic databases proposed, approved, and installed**
    - It is likely that the library will acquire two important databases that support the research and teaching of faculty members and students in the Spanish and Portuguese and Latin American Studies programs: "Classic Mexican Cinema Online" and "Arte Público Hispanic Heritage Collection, Series 1." The decision on these databases is still pending.
- **Funding adjustments**
    - The library has received allocations from the NRC Title VI grant for Latin American Studies. $3000 have been allocated for this year, to be spent by August 31.
- **Auxiliary Storage actions**
    - In response to a request from the WEST repository, of which BYU is a member, I sent numbers from the_Revista española de pedagogía_, most of which were in Auxiliary Storage. Other materials were also sent to WEST, but they were not in Auxiliary Storage.
- **Liaison actions pertaining to collections**
    - I have contacted the faculty by email (and some in person) regarding the potential purchase of the above-mentioned databases. This included setting up trial periods for testing the databases and requesting feedback from them. Besides these databases, I continue to work with faculty and students on additional orders and recommendations for acquisitions. In this I have been aided by the research interest survey carried out by my predecessor, as well as the "Suggest a Book" feature of the library's webpage.
