---
fund: 34285
fund-name: Communication Disorders
file-name: 34285 Communication Disorders.docx
tags:
 - Betsy Hopkins
---

The library seeks to support teaching and research in Communication Disorders at the Teaching level.

## About the Department

The undergraduate degree in Communication Disorders prepares students for a graduate program, which is required for practice. Undergraduates in Communication Disorders use very few library resources due to very few research assignments. ComD students meet the university's Advanced Writing requirement through a number of classes, including Persuasive Writing, Technical Writing, and Communication in Organizational Settings. Some of these students write a paper in their major but others do not depending on group assignments.

The Master's degree in Communication Disorders prepares students for professional practice as a speech-language pathologist; SLPs treat persons with speech and language disorders such as stuttering, articulation problems, aphasia, voice disorders, language delay, and similar communication difficulties. The BYU Master of Science degree in Communication Disorders includes a thesis requirement.

## Formats

Faculty and graduate students in Communication Disorders use primarily online databases and journal articles. Online journal article access is available through publisher packages, database subscriptions, and individual title management. Books are purchased mainly via the YBP approval plan. Twice a year faculty are provided with a list of new books from YBP slips and queried for firm order requests; very few firm order purchases are made without faculty request. Circulation rates are quite low for monographs.

## Degree Programs and Collecting Levels

- Bachelor of Science, Communication Disorders: Teaching Level
- Master of Science, Communication Disorders: Teaching Level

## Research Interests

- Language impairment and social competence
- Hearing aid evaluation; hearing screenings and assessments
- Algorithms for syntactic analysis and for modeling language acquisition
- Language and literacy instruction and intervention
- Speech motor control and motor speech disorders
- Divided attention task interactions
- Acoustic, aerodynamic and kinematic analysis of speech production
- Speech measurement technologies
- Development of digitally recorded speech audiometry materials in foreign languages
- Event related potential studies in language, cognition, and auditory processing and function
- Neurophysiological foundations of sensory development
- Speech production in adults and typically developing children
- The professional voice
- Cross-linguistic communication
- Communicative rehabilitation from neurologic injury
- Social communication in children with autism
- Educating graduate students in SLP
- Laryngeal and airway surface tissue hydration
- Voice disorders epidemiology

## Subject Librarian Annual Collection Reports

### 2015

- **Topics in Language Disorders**. Switched from print only subscription to online only subscription.
