---
fund: 34227
fund-name: English
file-name: 34227 English.docx
tags:
 - Robert Means
---

## Overview

The library seeks to support teaching and research in English Language and Literature (ELANG) through the Bachelor's and Master's level. NOTE: Collecting responsibilities for ELANG are shared by Richard Hacken and myself: Linguistics (& TESOL) and English Language, respectively. But I present the figures for all of ELANG here.

## Part I: Linguistics and English Language (ELANG)

### Degree Programs and Collecting Levels (ELANG)

- Bachelor of Arts, Linguistics: Teaching Level
- Bachelor of Arts, English Language: Teaching Level
    - Minors: Editing, Linguistics, TESOL (Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages)
- Master of Arts, Linguistics: Teaching Level
- Master of Arts, TESOL: Teaching Level

### Number of Degrees Awarded (ELANG)

|   | **Bachelor's** |  | **Master's** | | **TOTAL** |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **2014–2015** | Linguistics      | 48 | Linguistics | 7 | 55 |
|               | English Language | 30 | TESOL       | 5 | |
|               | TOTAL            | 78 | TOTAL       | 12 | 90 |
| **2013–2014** | Linguistics      | 62 | Linguistics | 9 | 71 |
|               | English Language | 27 | TESOL       | 7 | |
|               | TOTAL            | 89 | TOTAL       | 16 | 105 |
| **2012–2013** | Linguistics      | 60 | Linguistics | 7 | 67 |
|               | English Language | 35 | TESOL       | 18 | |
|               | TOTAL            | 95 | TOTAL       | 15 | 110 |
| **2011–2012** | Linguistics      | 61 | Linguistics | 8 | 69 |
|               | English Language | 27 | TESOL       | 10 | |
|               | TOTAL            | 88 | TOTAL       | 15 | 106 |

### Student Enrollment (ELANG)

|   | **Undergraduate** | | **Graduate** | | **TOTAL** |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **2014-2015** | Linguistics      | 92  | Linguistics | 12 | 104 |
|               | English Language | 47  | TESOL       | 7  |     |
|               | TOTAL            | 139 | TOTAL       | 19 | 158 |
| **2013-2014** | Linguistics      | 100 | Linguistics | 10 | 110 |
|               | English Language | 31  | TESOL       | 12 |     |
|               | TOTAL            | 131 | TOTAL       | 22 | 153 |
| **2012-2013** | Linguistics      | 87  | Linguistics | 8  | 95  |
|               | English Language | 42  | TESOL       | 19 |     |
|               | TOTAL            | 129 | TOTAL       | 27 | 156 | 
| **2011-2012** | Linguistics      | 87  | Linguistics | 9  | 96  |
|               | English Language | 44  | TESOL       | 10 |     |
|               | TOTAL            | 131 | TOTAL       | 19 | 150 |

### Courses Cataloged (ELANG) (March 2016)

- Linguistics (undergraduate): 24
- English Language: 34
- Linguistics (graduate): 26
- TESOL (MA): 18

### Courses Taught (ELANG)

(individual courses offered, this does not reflect multiple sections of each individual course)

|   | **Winter** | **Spring** | **Summer** | **Fall** | **TOTAL** |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **2015** | no data (avg. 19) | no data (avg. 9) | 13 | 24 | 65 |
| **2014** | 23 |   9 | no data (avg. 8) | 21 | 61 |
| **2013** | 18 |   9 |   5 | 19 | 51 |
| **2012** | 17 | 10 |   5 | 15 | 47 |

### Faculty (ELANG)

- 26 full-time (25 PhD's / doctorates)
- 4 adjunct

### Research Interests

The ELANG Department at BYU currently includes faculty with specialization and research interest that include: TESOL, editing, grammar and usage, and corpus linguistics.

### Related Departments/<wbr>Disciplines/<wbr>Programs/<wbr>Subject Areas

The ELANG collection provides background and context to inform and enrich the interests of many other departments and programs, including:

- Department of Anthropology
- Department of Communication
- Department of Comparative Arts & Letters
- Department of History
- Department of Psychology

And because ELANG has cross-disciplinary implications, this collection also offers support for research and teaching in other Western European language and literature departments (*e.g.*, French, Italian, Spanish and Portuguese, German) as well as area studies such as African Studies, Carribean Studies, and indeed the study of all Anglophone literatures world-wide.

## Part II: English Literature

In recent decades, new research interests and courses of study have included the topics related to transnational phenomena ("border literature"), Cold-War literature, Modernism and Post-Modernism, and Post-Colonialism, as well and film and literature comparisons. The library seeks to support research and teaching in English through targeted acquisitions, both of new materials and retrospectively.

### Degree Programs and Collecting Levels (English literature)

- Bachelor's of Arts, English: Teaching Level
- Bachelor's of Arts, English Teaching: Teaching Level
    - Minors: English, English Teaching, Writing and Rhetoric, Creative Writing
- Master's of Arts, English: Teaching Level
- Master of Fine Arts, Creative Writing: Teaching Level

### Number of Degrees Awarded (English literature)

|   | **Bachelor's** | | **Master's** | | **TOTAL** |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **2014-2015** | English          | 194 | English          | 11 | 205 |
|               | English Teaching | 46  | Creative Writing | 12 |     |
|               | TOTAL            | 250 | TOTAL            | 23 | 273 |
| **2013-2014** | English          | 180 | English          | 12 | 192 |
|               | English Teaching | 39  | Creative Writing | 5  |     |
|               | TOTAL            | 219 | TOTAL            | 17 | 236 |
| **2012-2013** | English          | 237 | English          | 21 | 258 |
|               | English Teaching | 35  | Creative Writing | 9  |     |
|               | TOTAL            | 272 | TOTAL            | 30 | 302 |
| **2011-2012** | English          | 262 | English          | 16 | 278 |
|               | English Teaching | 37  | Creative Writing | 7  |     |
|               | TOTAL            | 299 | TOTAL            | 23 | 322 |

### Student Enrollment (English literature)

|   | **Undergraduate** | | **Graduate** | | **TOTAL** |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **2014-2015** | English          | 939  | English          | 49 | 988  |
|               | English Teaching | 136  | Creative Writing | 32 |      |
|               | TOTAL            | 1075 | TOTAL            | 81 | 1156 |
| **2013-2014** | English          | 910  | English          | 43 | 953  |
|               | English Teaching | 163  | Creative Writing | 28 |      |
|               | TOTAL            | 1073 | TOTAL            | 71 | 1144 |
| **2012-2013** | English          | 1122 | English          | 51 | 1173 |
|               | English Teaching | 199  | Creative Writing | 23 |      |
|               | TOTAL            | 1321 | TOTAL            | 74 | 1395 |
| **2011-2012** | English          | 1234 | English          | 48 | 1282 |
|               | English Teaching | 212  | Creative Writing | 23 |      |
|               | TOTAL            | 1446 | TOTAL            | 71 | 1517 |

### Courses Taught (English literature)

(individual courses offered, this does not reflect multiple sections of each individual course)

|   | **Winter** | **Spring** | **Summer** | **Fall** | **TOTAL** |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **2015** | no data (avg. 88) | 27 | 32 | 101 | 248 |
| **2014** | 89 | 33 | no data (avg. 26) | 100 | 248 |
| **2013** | 91 | 37 | 23 | 102 | 253 |
| **2012** | 85 | 33 | 22 | 97 | 237 |

### Faculty (English Department)

- 59 full-time (all PhD's)
- 67 adjunct (5 PhD's)

### Research Interests

The English Department at BYU currently includes a strong creative writing group (covered in the collection development (CD) policies for Fiction and Science Fiction), three full-time faculty specializing in folklore (covered in the CD policy for Folklore), a few faculty specializing in Middle English, and many faculty specializing in Renaissance, 18<sup>th</sup> Century, 19<sup>th</sup> Century, 20<sup>th</sup> Century, film and literature, and women's literature.

### Related Departments/<wbr>Disciplines/<wbr>Programs/<wbr>Subject Areas

The English collection provides background and context to inform and enrich the interests of many other (than the English Department) departments and programs, including:

- Department of Anthropology
- Department of Communication
- Department of Comparative Arts & Letters
- Department of Fine Art
- Department of History
- Department of Psychology
- Department of Theater and Media Arts

And because English literature has cross-disciplinary implications, this collection also offers support for research and teaching in other Western European language and literature departments (*e.g.*, French, Italian, Spanish and Portuguese, German) as well as area studies such as African Studies, Carribean Studies, and indeed the study of all Anglophone literatures world-wide.

## Subject Librarian Annual Collection Reports

### 2015

#### Part I: ELANG

**Electronic Resources.**  Of the many electronic resources added during 2015 in my subject areas, those pertaining to ELANG included:

- _Oxford Handbooks Online: Linguistics_. Review essays by leading linguistics scholars that evaluate the current thinking in the field, and make an original arguments about future directions. Includes monthly updates.

**New Serials Subscriptions.** During 2015, I offered serials cancellation money to my teaching faculty to start subscriptions for requested journals we lacked (and / or to purchase needed back issues, restart cancelled subscriptions, etc.). Some were unusual or more complicated, such as this title that pertained to ELANG (which turned into a "discovery" and outreach exercise):
- _Current Issues in Language Planning._ Bill Eggington, Linguistics and English Language Department, requested the journal _Current Issues in Language Planning_; however, after we had a subscription, Bill and his students couldn't seem to find it in the HBLL homepage . . . working with the Serials Department and Virginia Watson, we got the journal to properly display throughout the Library homepage.

#### Part II: English Literature

**Electronic Resources.**  Of the many electronic resources added during 2015 in my subject areas, those pertaining to English literature included:

- _Cambridge Edition of the Works of Ben Jonson Online_. The texts of all of Ben Jonson's plays, masques, poems, letters, and criticism in an interactive digital format.
- _Drama Online_. Complete digital library of the most studied and performed plays from the last 2,500 years. Scholarly notes, annotated texts, contextual information, synopsis, biographical entries, and material on acting, directing, and lighting.
- _Sunday Times Digital Archive_ (1822-2006). Thoughtful analysis and commentary on the week's news and society at large (since 1822). "Murder, theatre, sport and politics, all collide in these pages in an abundance of glorious narrative detail" (I wish I'd been the one to write that).
- _Crime, Punishment, and Popular Culture_ (1790-1920). Broad history of crime in the long 19<sup>th</sup> century derived from French, German, Spanish, Australian, British and U.S. sources. The collection includes trial transcripts, court proceedings, police and forensic documents, photographs, true crime literature and detective novels, and newspaper accounts. (I'm also using "copy" here, but without the quotes.)
- _Oxford Bibliography: British and Irish Literature_. (Here's another description I wish I'd have written myself) " . . . offer[s] a trustworthy pathway through the thicket of information overload." Editor in Chief, Andrew Hadfield, professor of English at the University of Sussex.
- _Oxford Bibliography: Victorian Literature_. Editor in Chief, Juliet John, Hildred Carlile Chair of English Literature at Royal Holloway, University of London, and previously Professor of Victorian Literature and Culture at the University of Liverpool.

**New Serials Subscriptions.** During 2015, I used serials cancellation money I'd amassed / earned to start subscriptions for requested journals we lacked (and / or to purchase needed back issues, restart cancelled subscriptions). Those that support English literature included:

- _Milton Studies._ During Spring-Summer terms I worked with Jason Kerr, English Department, and our Serials Department, to restart our print subscription to _Milton Studies_ that had fallen through the cracks of a large electronic journal-package.
- _Literature Criticism Online (LCO)._ During 2015, we (that is, Mary Chapman) discovered that we were missing large numbers of volumes from our original print versions of the (10) criticism sets that comprise _LCO_: for example, _Shakespearean Criticism_; _Nineteenth Century Literature Criticism (NCLC)_; etc. The complete reason for this oversight would require the (re-)telling of a long, long story but, suffice it to say that (as part of the _LCO_ subscription) _Gale_ decided to cancel our print subscriptions to these sets, while we (Mary and I) were under the impression that we were to go on receiving them (as we did for a time). And as these sets are irregular(ly published) serials, we weren't alarmed when they didn't appear on a regular basis. That is, until we realized something was wrong, and that we had fallen behind. Since Mary and I agreed that _Shakespearean Criticism (SC)_ was the most important set of the (10) sets for use in Humanities Reference, I got a standing order re-started for it, and I used some funds that I had remaining at the end of the year (2015) to buy the back issues (around 25 volumes) of _SC_, and bring us up-to-date in that set. The other sets will have to wait, and possibly be filled in one set at a time, year by year.

**Collaboration on Science Fiction Titles for "Sampler."** During Fall semester 2015, I collaborated with Rebecca Boughan, who produced a list of (over 100) current science fiction titles needed for "Sampler." I funded the purchase from my "Fiction" budget, and after two years these volumes will move from Sampler into the general science fiction stacks collection in PZ 4.

**OUTREACH: English Department Reading Series (ERS).** I continued to work with the English Department to produce the weekly English Department Reading Series (now in its 12th+ year). This weekly event brings in creative writers (fiction writers, poets, essayists) from the BYU English Department, as well as from outside the University to read in the Library auditorium. Following the reading, an author reception and book-signing is held in the Special Collections classroom. Generally, attendance at the readings is over 120, an at the author reception and book signing, from 50-80. Also, one of the readings each semester is devoted to a student writing contest, wherein a student poet, essayist, and fiction writer is chosen to read at the weekly series. The weekly series has become so popular that several year ago it was "official-ized" into a for-credit course: ENGL 321R that has, typically, from 40-70 students enrolled each winter and fall semester.

### 2014

#### Part I: ELANG

**Electronic Resources.**  Of the many electronic resources added during 2014 in my subject areas, those pertaining to ELANG included:

- _Dictionary of American Regional English_ (DARE). Focuses on the regional aspects of American English, documenting words, phrases, and pronunciations.
- _Partridge Slang Online_. The first authoritative slang dictionary online. Acknowledged to be the most authoritative and comprehensive dictionary of slang in the world. Contains over 60,000 entries, dating back to the 1600's.
- _Encyclopedia of Applied Linguistics_. Key areas in Linguistics, including Language Learning and Teaching, Bilingual and Multilingual Education, Assessment and Testing, Corpus Linguistics, Conversation Analysis, Discourse, Cognitive Second Language Acquisition, Language Policy and Planning, Literacy, and Technology and Language.

#### Part II: English Literature

**Electronic Resources.**  Of the many electronic resources added during 2014 in my subject areas, those pertaining to English Literature included:

- _BBC Shakespeare Plays_. 37 Shakespeare plays performed by some of the most distinguished and recognized Shakespearean actors. Closed captioned, and chaptered by acts within each play. Able to stream to mobile devices.
- _Punch Magazine Archive_. The complete 1841 to 1992 run of the world's most celebrated magazine of humor and satire.
- _Travel Writing, Spectacle and World History_. Hundreds of accounts by women of their travels across the globe from the early 19<sup>th</sup> century to the late 20<sup>th</sup> century.
- _Jewish Life in America_. From the American Jewish Historical Society in New York, the history of Jewish communities in America from their first arrival in New York in 1654 up through 1954.
- _First World War: Visual Perspectives and Narratives_. Primary source material from the Imperial War Museum in London. Main themes include the role of women during the war, the Home Front and international perspectives.
- _American History from the Gilder Lehrman Collection_. American History from the earliest settlers in 1493 to the mid-twentieth century 1945.
- _American Consumer Culture: Market Research and American Business, 1935-1965._ A look at the American consumer boom of the mid-20<sup>th</sup> century through access to the complete market research reports of Ernest Dichter.
- _Popular Culture in Britain and America, 1950-1975._ Music, politics, fashion, and youth culture during the period 1950 to 1975. Includes printed and manuscript sources, visual material, ephemera and video clips.
- also, two small collections from Gale's _Archives Unbound_: the "Rastafari Collection" and  "Mountain People: Life and Culture in Appalachia."

**ASSESSMENT: California Preservation Program (CALIPR).** During Winter semester 2014, I worked with Christina Thomas and Kohleen Reeder (of the Conversation Lab), under the direction of Scott Duvall, on a CALIPR assessment of the Lee Library's PZ 4 (Science Fiction) collection. The objective of the CALIPR assessment was to determine the best way to preserve and maintain this heavily-circulating collection. I gathered physical data on the collection (shelving, number of volumes, etc.), we ran a software program that determined the survey sample we would take, and finally from the sample, a student and I entered data on the condition of each volume. From there, Christina and Kohleen took the sample of PZ 4 volumes for needed repair. This was the first time a CALIPR assessment had been conducted in the HBLL, and this "pilot" will provide insights into how to use CALIPR for future collection assessments.

**DISCOVERY: Library Collections Forums (LCF).** I participated (with other Lee Librarians) in two LCF's during 2014, highlighting and demonstrating databases and / or HBLL collections:

- "Resources For Studying WWI" on April 3<sup>rd</sup> and "Graphic Novels" on November 6<sup>th</sup>

### 2013

#### Part I: ELANG & Part II: English Literature

**Electronic Resources.**  Of the many electronic resources added during 2013 in my subject areas, those pertaining to ELANG & English Literature included:

- _Illustrated London News_ (1842-2003). The full-run of the world's first fully illustrated weekly newspaper.
- _International Women's Periodicals, 1786-1933: Social and Political Issues_.
- _19_<sup>th</sup> _Century U.K. Periodicals Series 1: New Readerships: Women's, Children's, Humor and Leisure/Sport_.
- _Women, War & Society 1914-1918_. A digital archive collected from the "Women at Work Collection" at the Imperial War Museum.
- _Queen Victoria Journals (1832-1901)_. For the first time, the entire 141 volumes (approx. 33,000 pp.) from her first journal entry at 13 years to her death in 1901.
- _World War I Trench Journals._ Primary source periodicals written by and for servicemen and women of all nations during the First World War.
- _First World War: Propaganda & Recruitment_. Posters, photographs, leaflets, etc.
- _Leeds Literary Manuscripts_. Complete facsimile images of 190 manuscripts of 17th & 18<sup>th</sup> century verse held in the Brotherton Collection at the Univ. of Leeds.
- _John Johnson Collection of Printed Ephemera_. Items selected from the John Johnson Collection of Printed Ephemera, offering unique insights into the changing nature of everyday life in Britain in the 18<sup>th</sup>, 19<sup>th</sup>, and early 20<sup>th</sup> centuries.

**New Serials Subscriptions.** During 2013, I used serials cancellation money I'd amassed / earned to start subscriptions for requested journals we lacked (and / or to purchase needed back issues, restart cancelled subscriptions). Titles applicable to ELANG & English Literature included:

- _Emblematica_
- _Religion in the Age of Enlightenment_
- _London Review of Books_
- _Literary Market Place_
- _International Literary Market Place_
- _The Normal School_
- _Fourth Genre_
- _Creative Nonfiction_
- **Mormon Literature & Creative Arts (ML&CA)**  **Database.** During 2013, I met regularly with other members of the _ML&CA_ Database Committee as we worked to produce a new interface for the database. The new interface is now available at [http://mormonarts.lib.byu.edu/](http://mormonarts.lib.byu.edu/).
-  **Assessment and Retrospective Collecting.** Based on a meeting I had (Winter semester) with 18<sup>th</sup> and 19<sup>th</sup> century specialists among the English Department faculty, I oversaw a retrospective-buying project to improve our collection of Broadview Press Editions.

### 2012

#### Part I: ELANG & Part II: English Literature

**Electronic Resources.**  Of the many electronic resources added during 2012 in my subject areas, those pertaining to ELANG & English Literature included:

- _London Low Life_
- _Berg Literary Collection_ (famous Victorian Collection from NYPL)
- _World War I Personal Histories_
- _19_<sup>th</sup> _Century British Library Newspapers_ part II (we have part I)
- _19_<sup>th</sup> _Century UK Periodicals_ part I
- _Feminism in Cuba, 1898-1958_
- _German Folklore and Popular Culture_
- _Orlando: Women's Writings in the British Isles From the Beginning to the Present_
- _Nineteenth Century Collections Online_ (NCCO)
- _Defining Gender, 1450-1910_
- _Eighteenth-Century Journals Portal, Section V:_ _The Lady's Magazine_ _and Other Titles, 1712-1835_
- _Literary Encyclopedia_ (co-sponsored with Richard Hacken)
- _The Lily: A Temperance and Feminist Newspaper, 1849-1856_ (with Connie Lamb)
- _Victorian Popular Culture IV: Moving Pictures, Optical Entertainments and the Advent of Cinema_ (co-sponsored with Julie Williamsen)
- two small(er) databases (part of _Gale_'s "Archives Unbound"):
    - _Papers of Amiri Bakara, Poet Laureate of the Black Power Movement_
    - _Psychological Warfare and Propaganda in World War II_
- and, as part of the "_Gale_ Virtual Reference Library" I purchased:
    - _Twenty-First Century Drama: The First Decade_
    - _The Literature of Autobiographical Narrative_
    - _The Literature of Propaganda_
    - _The Manifesto in Literature_

**Emily Dickinson Lexicon / Webster's 1844 ed.** During Summer term and Fall semester 2012, I worked with Cynthia Hallen, English Language & Linguistics, and Brian Rennick, HBLL Web Programming & Design Manager, to propose and arrange for the hosting of Professor Hallen's _Emily Dickinson Lexicon_ ([http://edl.byu.edu/](http://edl.byu.edu/)) and _Webster's 1844 ed._ ([http://edl.byu.edu/webster](http://edl.byu.edu/webster)) databases at the HBLL.

**DISCOVERY and Reference: "Critical Surveys."** Mary Chapman and I discovered that the _Salem Press_ "Critical Survey" (of authors, graphic novels, etc.) series, that we had in print, were also available in an electronic format (to holders of the print copies), and only needed to be "turned on." I initially made this a project for my intern Sarah Bradley, who caught us up on the volumes we had, and since Sarah's departure, I've worked with Rebecca Boughan and Nancy Haight to immediately activate new volumes as they come in.
