---
fund: 34201
fund-name: US Federal Documents
file-name: 34201 US Federal Documents.docx
tags:
 - Brian Champion
---

## Overview

Since the earliest decades of the 20<sup>th</sup> century, BYU has been a government documents library, now called a selective depository of the Government Publishing Office (GPO) and a participant in the Federal Depository Library Program (FDLP). The Lee Library continues to support comprehensive undergraduate teaching and research, as well as faculty research needs, by cultivating a wide-ranging US federal documents collection as stipulated in FDLP guidelines, and in compliance with Title 44, 18 USC, which act of Congress is the legislation all depository libraries function under.

US federal print documents are classified in the Superintendent of Documents classification system (SuDoc) (not Library of Congress (LC) (as is the rest of the collection except Juvenile Literature), and is housed as a separate unit of Government Documents in Auxiliary Storage, First Floor South.

There is no one college, department, degree or program that US federal documents supports, as it is a service collection for the entire campus.

In addition, as the designated US federal documents library for the Utah 3<sup>rd</sup> Congressional District, it provides materials and services to all residents of the 3<sup>rd</sup> District, whether or not they are affiliated in anyway with BYU or its sponsoring organization The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.

## Formats collected

### Books and Periodicals

While there are thousands of cataloged paper documents in the collection, the BYU Library Catalog provides access to those and many more specifically-electronic documents. Because of advances in GPO procedures which identified a preference for electronic over paper documents, the BYU US federal documents collection has gone as fully digital as possible since 2011. We continue to be a selective depository, and our new book and periodical receipts are exclusively electronic, in accordance with the required FDLP selection profile. Over 95% of our receipts are electronically inserted into our catalog via regular MARC record loads.

### Microcollections

The Library no longer collects US federal documents in micro formats, and simply preserves the micro collections is already has.

### Reference

US federal documents reference materials are less in demand, and discovery usually occurs through commercial databases to which the Library subscribes. In-person reference and document paging may be obtained from the Social Science Help Desk, and items may also be paged through Access Services on the 3<sup>rd</sup> Floor.

## Subject Librarian Annual Collection Reports

### 2016

- **Collection Development or Approvals**
    - Collection building relies on university press catalogs as well as selected trade books channeled by YBP. The collection has uneven use, the JZ collection is the most utilized, though circulation in the Js slowly declines annually.
