---
fund: 34280
fund-name: Medicine
file-name: 34280 Medicine.docx
tags:
 - Meg Frost
---

## Overview

This policy covers the Medicine Collection which is a general collection not assigned to any department. The Harold B. Lee Library supports the curricular and research needs of the department through a general acquisition of books, periodicals and database subscriptions.

## Degree Programs and Collecting Levels

As this is a multidisciplinary collection. It is used to fill in gaps not covered under other collections in an effort to create a broad and general body of resources in the biomedical sciences. The collection level is general and broad.

## Research Interests

The medicine collection meets the needs of a broad range of research interests across campus:

- General biology
- Nursing
- Physiology
- Developmental Biology
- Biophysics
- Exercise Sciences
- Biochemistry
- Health Science
- Nutrition, Dietetics and Food Science
- Microbiology and Molecular Biology
- Neuroscience
- Communication Disorders

## Departments/<wbr>Disciplines/<wbr>Programs/<wbr>Subject Areas

The Medical collections reflect the interests of several departments and colleges on campus:

- College of Nursing
- College of Life Sciences
 - Physiology and Developmental Biology
 - Exercise Sciences
 - Chemistry and Biochemistry
 - Health Science
 - Nutrition, Dietetics and Food Science
 - Microbiology and Molecular Biology
 - Biology
- McKay School of Education
 - Department of Communication Disorders
- [College of Family, Home, and Social Sciences](https://fhss.byu.edu/)
 - The Neuroscience Center

**Classed Analysis**

| **LC Classification** | **Subject** | **Collecting Level** |
| --- | --- | --- |
| R | MEDICINE | _Selective_ |
| RC | INTERMAL MEDICINE | _Selective_ |
| RD | SURGERY | _Selective_ |
| RE | OPTHAMOLOGY | _Selective_ |
| RF | OTORHINOLARYNGOLOGY | _Selective_ |
| RG | GYNECOLOGY AND OBSTETRICS | _Selective_ |
| RJ | PEDIATRICS | _Selective_ |
| RK | DENTISTRY | _Selective_ |
| RL | DERMATOLOGY | _Selective_ |
| RM | THERAPEUTICS, PHARMACOLOGY | _Selective_ |
| RX | HOMEOPATHY | _Selective_ |
| RZ | OTHER SYSTEMS OF MEDICINE | _Selective_ |

## Subject and Format

### Type

- Original research, abstracts, and reference works: _Research_
- Biographies, histories and popular treatments: _Selective_
- Textbooks, and course materials: _Curriculum support_
- Other types: _generally, not collected_

### Format Priority

1. Serials: _Research_
2. Electronic sources, DDA: _Research_
3. Electronic sources, purchased: _Selective_
4. Print Monographs: _Selective_
5. Audiovisual materials: _Selective_
6. Microforms and manuscripts: _generally, not collected_

### Dates

Because new research is constantly making older material obsolete in this field, monographs are generally purchased within the year of publication. Materials older than one year are collected very selectively. Back files of periodicals are occasionally purchased.

### Languages

Unless requested, materials are collected in English. General academic, advanced academic and popular level materials are collected in all call numbers. Professional level materials are collected selectively.

### Geographic Focus

There are no general geographic criteria for most acquisitions, however some materials such as biographies and histories found in the call number R are more likely to be acquired if they are local.

### Gifts

Community members who offer gifts are generally referred to our partners, like BetterWorldBooks. Faculty gifts are typically reviewed more carefully. This encounter provides a liaison opportunity for the subject librarian.

### Cooperative Resources

Various consortia arrangements on a library wide scale have been entered into to ensure full text availability of periodicals. These include some exercise science periodicals and other electronic materials.

## Subject Librarian Annual Collection Reports

### 2015

- I reviewed Gobi every two weeks and made bi-monthly orders for Medicine. I chose this time scale because I wanted to acquire books in my disciplines in a timely manner, but because many of the titles become available as eBooks after they are released as print materials, I found it valuable to wait for a month or two before ordering newly published print materials.
- I continued my collection of various test prep manuals such as the DAT and LSAT which are now kept for in-library use at the Science Reference Desk. These manuals have already received a great deal of interest.
- I evaluated 13 journals for possible subscription or cancelation. Three of these journals were recommendations from faculty and the rest were evaluated due to price increases or high numbers of turn-aways. I collaborated with Rebecca Boughan, Leila Kramer, and Kimberly Hao to investigate usage and pricing.
- I took time to become familiar with the top journals in my subject areas. I created a spreadsheet that provided information indices for all of the journals with in my subject areas that have an impact factor of 10 or higher. I did this because I felt like there was a gap in my knowledge when speaking about publications with some of my faculty.
- I assisted a student in acquiring a textbook for a student who need accessibility services.
