---
fund: 34224
fund-name: Germanic Studies
file-name: 34224 Germanic Studies.docx
tags:
  - Richard Hacken
---

## Overview

The library supports Germanic (German, Dutch and Scandinavian) Studies in its full disciplinary breadth: while Germanic languages and literatures form the main core of materials for students studying and researching German, Dutch and Scandinavian topics and for professors teaching and researching them, there is broader interdisciplinary involvement. The curriculum and research of Germanic Studies also interweave the disciplines of history for Germanic countries (in a wide sense: social history, economic history, diplomatic history, religious history, etc.), of politics, and of contemporary and historical culture. A separate major collection fund ([34131]({{ site.github.url }}/policies/34131)) serves to provide the latter types of materials for Germanic Studies (see separate collection statement), while fund 34224 is largely dedicated to Germanic, languages and literatures. The broadening of Germanic Studies beyond a narrower language and literature emphasis has been in play at the departmental level (the German Department and Scandinavian Section of the Department of Comparative Arts and Letters) since at least the beginning of the 21<sup>st</<wbr>sup> century.

The library generally seeks to support teaching and research in Germanic Studies at the Teaching level. One exception to this is Holocaust Studies, which we collect at the Research Level. This is an example of a multidisciplinary topic that retains ongoing interest and relevance for teaching and research throughout the years.

Some of the areas of Germanic teaching and research interest in recent decades have included topics related to Goethe, Schiller, Rudolf Steiner, fin-de-siècle Viennese writers and culture, Germanic linguistics, German Idealism, as well as Johanna Schopenhauer and other female writers. The latter area is a major focus that has led to the Sophie Project, an online collection of works from German Women Writers that is now part of a collaborative Library-German Department effort. In other Germanic areas, research has included Hans Christian Andersen, Strindberg, Ibsen and Icelandic literature. Materials for certain of these topics, those with multidisciplinary aspects, are acquired in cooperation with other selectors.

The library seeks to support research and teaching through targeted acquisitions, both of new and retrospective materials. Relevance and potential use for teaching and/<wbr>or research are paramount, and a further factor is the quality of scholarship and presentation. For books, both print and digital formats are collected; where there is a choice, the default is for an e-book unless other factors intervene (faculty preference for paper format, need for better resolution of paper maps and illustrations, etc.)  Demand-driven acquisition is used where possible, since it saves money and guarantees usage.

## Degree Programs and Collecting Level

- Bachelor of Arts in German: Teaching Level
- Bachelor of Arts in German Studies: Teaching Level
- Bachelor of Arts in German Teaching: Teaching Level
- Master of Arts in Comparative Studies: Teaching Level

## Departments/<wbr>Disciplines/<wbr>Programs/<wbr>Subject Areas

The German Studies collections also reflect the interests of the following departments and programs:

- History Department
- Political Science Department
- German Section of German and Russian Department
- Scandinavian Section of Department of Comparative Arts and Letters
- Interdisciplinary Humanities Section of Department of Comparative Arts and Letters
- Program of International and Area Studies, especially European Studies.

Because language, literature and area studies have cross-disciplinary implications, these Germanic collections also offer support for research and teaching in other departments, primarily in the Humanities and Social Sciences as well as in related area studies.

## Subject Librarian Annual Collection Reports

### 2016

- **Notable acquisitions (collections, journals, databases)**
  - Sophie Collection augmentation – 3,000 titles in PDF format for Scholars Archive
  - Journal: _The Bridge: Journal of the Danish-American Heritage Society_
- **Funding adjustments**
  - Reduction in base funding amount of $1000
- **Liaison actions pertaining to collections**
  - Working out details (and hiring new students) for entry of Sophie Project women's literature (transcription PDFs, original images and metadata) into Scholars Archive

### 2015
- **Notable acquisitions (collections, journals, databases)**
  - Expansion of multivolume sets for German literary lexicon, German author lexicon, German theater lexicon and Goethe dictionary.
  - Full Harry Potter set in Finnish
  - Full sets of Karl Ove Knausgaard's works in Norwegian and in English translation
  - Current Dutch-English dictionary for reference area
  - New Scandinavian newspapers online: _Politiken_ (Denmark) and _Aftenposten_ (Norway)
- **Funding adjustments**
  - None
- **Liaison actions pertaining to collections**
  - Working with German Department to store and curate German women's literature collection in the Institutional Repository.
