---
fund: 34176
fund-name: Communications
file-name: 34176 Communications.docx
tags:
 - Elizabeth Smart
---

## Overview

This fund supports BYU's School of Communications bachelor degree program in News Media (formerly Journalism) and the masters degree program in Mass Communications along with general research and curriculum in communication studies. [Learning outcomes for these programs are available](http://comms.byu.edu/about/program-outcomes/).

### Effective Communication

*Students will communicate effectively with their audiences*: Specifically, students will do so by planning and preparing mass communication messages in the appropriate style, using the appropriate research methods and appropriate technologies to best serve audience needs.

### Professional Practice

*Students will act professionally in their practice*: Specifically, students will be able to practice communication within legal boundaries, while exhibiting standards of professional behavior and demonstrating sensitivity to ethical behavior. Students will also be literate in the language of the media industries.

### Mass Communication Processes

*Students will be scholars of the mass communication process*: Specifically, students will be able to apply relevant theory to communication practice, understand factors that shape their profession, value freedom of speech in the marketplace of ideas, and think critically about the relationship between mass media and society.

### Applying Gospel-Centered Values

*Students will apply Gospel-centered values as they contribute to society*: Specifically, students will respect diversity and agency in a global society, be able to exercise moral reasoning when faced with ethical dilemmas, and show a commitment to making a difference within their sphere of influence.

Coursework in the news media emphasis includes media ethics and law, research methods, media design, social media management, media entrepreneurship, new and broadcast media reporting, mass media history, popular culture and media, international media systems, and gender, race, and class in the media. Coursework for the graduate program in mass communications focuses on communications theory, qualitative research methods, media and religion, and professional practicums.

There are 12 full-time faculty and 7 adjunct faculty serving the news media and mass communications disciplines. Faculty research interests are varied, including:

- Communications law
- First Amendment
- Freedom of Information Act
- Historical diffusion of innovations
- Intercultural adaptation
- Journalism and new media
- Media ecology
- Media and religion
- Social media

The library seeks to support research and teaching through targeted acquisitions, both of new and retrospective materials. Relevance and potential use for teaching and/or research are paramount, and a further factor is the quality of scholarship and presentation. For books, both print and digital formats are collected; where there is a choice, the default is for an e-book.

## Degree Programs and Collecting Levels

- Bachelor of Arts in Communications: Teaching Level
- Master of Arts in Mass Communications: Teaching Level

## Departments/<wbr>Disciplines/<wbr>Programs/<wbr>Subject Areas

The communications collections also support the interest of the following departments and programs:

- Advertising
- Media Arts
- Political Science
- Public Relations
- Women's Studies

## Annual Collection Reports

### 2016

- **Notable acquisitions**
    - GuideStar Database
    - LegiStorm Database
    - Statista Database

- **Liaison actions pertaining to collections**
    - Consultation on collections supporting study of religion and media

- **Program changes**
    - In 2015, the School of Communications introduced a new core curriculum for the bachelor of arts program and a revised curriculum for the news media emphasis (formerly journalism).
