---
fund: 34246
fund-name: Statistics
file-name: 34246 Statistics.docx
tags:
 - Dan Broadbent
---

## Overview

The library supports its statistics collection at the Teaching level. Selected areas are supported at the research level at the request of faculty for their individual research programs as needed. The library supports the curricular and research needs of the collection through monograph purchases and database and periodical subscriptions. The majority of resources within this discipline are journals with monographs playing a lesser role.

Monographs are primarily collected via approval plans and various demand driven acquisition (DDA) agreements with vendors. This is supplemented by specific faculty resource requests. This model allows for increased usage of the collection as we are primarily collecting the resources actually used. As a general rule, e-book versions of resources are preferred unless there is a preference for the physical versions. The DDA programs are heavily used within this collection and account for a large fraction of the monograph purchases.

Journal subscriptions make up the bulk of the resources for this collection and are almost exclusively electronic. Faculty expect not only access to current issues and articles but electronic access to back issues as well. When negotiating subscriptions, every effort is taken to find the most cost effective way to guarantee this access.

This fund covers a subset of the QA (Mathematics) call number range, specifically QA 273 – 280 (Probabilities. Mathematical Statistics).

## Degree Programs & Collecting Levels

The following degrees and minors are supported by this collection.

### Degrees

- BS Actuarial Science – Teaching Level
- BS Statistics – Teaching Level
    - Applied Statistics & Analytics
    - Biostatistics Emphasis
    - Statistical Science Emphasis
- MS Statistics – Teaching Level

## Research Interests

The department of Statistics has a total of 24 faculty with a wide range of research interests across all aspects of statistics and actuarial science.

## Departments/<wbr>Disciplines/<wbr>Programs/<wbr>Subject Areas

This collection is specifically aimed at supporting the Department of Statistics. However, as the mathematics of statistical analysis are used across many disciplines in the physical and life sciences, social sciences, and humanities, the collection is used by members of all the university&#39;s colleges and departments. As an example, statistics related resources were requested by faculty in both the Biology and English departments in 2015.
