---
fund: 34300
fund-name: Industrial Design
file-name: 34300 Industrial Design.docx
tags:
- Peter Zuber
---

## I. Overview

This policy covers the Industrial Design Department within the School of Technology within the Ira A. Fulton College of Engineering and Technology. The Harold B. Lee Library supports the curricular and research needs of the department through monographic purchases and periodical and database subscriptions.

## II. Curriculum and Research

### A) Curriculum

The industrial design profession is represented by the Industrial Designers Society of America (IDSA). The IDSA defines the profession: "Industrial design (ID) is the professional service of creating and developing concepts and specifications that optimize the function, value and appearance of products and systems for the mutual benefit of both user and manufacturer." Industrial Design students approach complex problems from a background including a wide distribution of selective emphasis in mechanics, art, conceptual design, human/computer interaction, statistics and user assessment. Industrial designers are typically employed by corporations that develop products or by product design consultancies that service inventors, entrepreneurs, and manufacturers. These manufacturers may include: furniture, appliances, housewares, electronic and medical equipment, tools, toys and packaging. The abilities they develop at BYU include problem solving through comparative analysis, computational modeling, and experimental discovery and analysis. Students have opportunities to gain professional experience through internships, collaborative programs, and other field experiences with industry groups. The department aims to produce creative, skilled problem solvers who are technically sound researchers that are able to innovate and move products into fully formed and manufactural deliverables. The Industrial Design (ID) program offers an undergraduate Bachelor of Fine Arts degree through the Ira R. Fulton College of Engineering. There are 4 full-time faculty members in the department.

### B) Research

The department emphasizes a foundational understanding of how products work; how products can be made to work better for people; what makes a product useful, usable, and desirable; how products are manufactured; and how ideas can be presented using state-of-the-art tools. Knowledge of computer-aided drafting (CAD), computer-aided industrial design (CAID), and appropriate two-dimensional and three-dimensional graphic software are expected. An understanding of the history of industrial design as well as a functional knowledge of basic business and professional practice, the ability to investigate and synthesize the needs of marketing, sales, engineering, manufacturing, servicing, and ecological responsibility and to reconcile these needs with those of the user in terms of satisfaction, value, aesthetics, and safety. To do this, industrial designers must be able to define problems, variables and requirements; conceptualize and evaluate alternative; and test and refine solutions. This requires the ability to communicate concepts and requirements to other designers and colleagues who work with them, to clients and employers, and to prospective clients and employers. This need to communicate draws upon verbal and written forms, two-dimensional and three-dimensional media, and levels of detailing ranging from sketch or abstract to detailed and specific. Studies will also include an understanding of and experience in end-user psychology, human factors and the optimization of user interfaces.

## III. Subject and Formats

### A) Scope

The library collects Industrial Design monographs and periodicals on theory and practice at a level 4 (research) to support the faculty and students and common texts on a level 2 (selective) to support demand. Other subject areas are also collected on a level 3 (curricular).

### B) Type

Original research, abstracts, reference works are collected. Compendex, the search engine representing the collective indexing work of the Engineering Index® is the preferred index for periodical literature, however a number of other databases provide excellent entries into the literature including ProQuest&#39;s Materials Research Database, ProQuest Research Library: Science and Technology, Art Source (EBSCO), AIGA Design Archive, and the Design and Applied Arts Index (ProQuest). Popular treatments, textbooks, and course materials are collected selectively. Other types are generally not collected

### C) Format

Monographs, serials in electronic form are collected preferentially. Audiovisual materials are collected selectively. Microforms and manuscripts are generally not collected.

### D) Time

Materials published during the last 10 years are collected extensively. Materials published during the previous 20-30 years are collected very selectively. Materials published prior to 1950 are generally not collected.

### E) Languages

English is the preferred language and is collected extensively. Other languages are generally excluded or collected very selectively based on unique content that has not been translated into English

### F) Geographic Focus

No particular area of the World is favored however most materials come from North America and Europe.

## IV. Other

### A) Related Collections and Overlap

There is overlap in many other areas such as art and design, art history, psychology and assessment, but only as industrial design is applicable in those areas. Theory is separate and is generally found only in the industrial design literature.

### B) Cooperative resources and programs

Various consortia arrangements on a library wide scale have been entered into to ensure full text availability of periodicals and other collections.

## V. Classed Analysis

### Industrial Design

#### Classed Analysis

| **LC Classification** | **Subject** | **Collecting Level** |
| --- | --- | --- |
| T, TA, TT | Industrial Design | |
| T175-178 | Industrial research. Research and development | Teaching |
| T351-385 | Mechanical drawing. Engineering graphics | Teaching |
| TA166-167 | Human engineering | Research |
| TA174 | Engineering design | Research |
| TA213-215 | Engineering machinery, tools, and implements | Research |
| TA401-492 | Materials of engineering and construction. Mechanics of materials | Research |
| TT174-176 | Articles for children | Research |
| TT180-200 | Woodworking. Furniture making. Upholstering | Teaching |
| TT201-203 | Lathework. Turning | Teaching |
| TT205-267 | Metalworking | Teaching |
| TT300-382.8 | Painting. Wood finishing | Teaching |
| TT387-410 | Soft home furnishings | Teaching |
| | Art and Design | Rely on Art Collection Development Policy |
| | Psychology, Assessment | Rely on Psychology Collection Development Policy |
