---
fund: 34229
fund-name: Fiction
file-name: 34229 Fiction.docx
tags:
 - Robert Means
---

## Overview

The BYU English Department has a growing faculty presence and student interest in creative writing. The library seeks to support teaching and research in fiction (to include creative non-fiction, essay, etc.) as part of the English major through the Bachelor's and Master's level.

In recent years the study and practice of fiction (especially to include creative non-fiction and essay) have increased. In fact, creative non-fiction / essay is now termed "the fourth genre." Hence, the library seeks to support research and teaching of creative writing through targeted acquisitions, both of new materials and retrospectively.

## Degree Programs and Collecting Levels (English major)

- Bachelor of Arts, English Teaching Level
- Bachelor of Arts, English Teaching Teaching Level
- Minors: English, English Teaching, Writing and Rhetoric, Creative Writing
- Master of Arts, English Teaching Level
- Master of Fine Arts, Creative Writing Teaching Level

## Number of Degrees Awarded (English major)

|               | **Bachelor's**   |     | **Master's**     |    | **TOTAL** |
| ---           | ---              | --- | ---              | ---| --- |
| **2014-2015** | English          | 194 | English          | 11 | 273 |
|               | English Teaching | 46  | Creative Writing | 12 |     |
|               | TOTAL            | 250 | TOTAL            | 23 |     |
| **2013-2014** | English          | 180 | English          | 12 | 236 |
|               | English Teaching | 39  | Creative Writing | 5  |     |
|               | TOTAL            | 219 | TOTAL            | 17 |     |
| **2012-2013** | English          | 237 | English          | 21 | 302 |
|               | English Teaching | 35  | Creative Writing | 9  |     |
|               | TOTAL            | 272 | TOTAL            | 30 |     |
| **2011-2012** | English          | 262 | English          | 16 | 322 |
|               | English Teaching | 37  | Creative Writing | 7  |     |
|               | TOTAL            | 299 | TOTAL            | 23 |     |

## Student Enrollment (English major)

|               | **Undergraduate**|      | **Graduate**     |    |**TOTAL** |
| ---           | ---              | ---  | ---              | ---| ---  |
| **2014-2015** | English          | 939  | English          | 49 | 1156 |
|               | English Teaching | 136  | Creative Writing | 32 |      |
|               | TOTAL            | 1075 | TOTAL            | 81 |      |
| **2013-2014** | English          | 910  | English          | 43 | 1144 |
|               | English Teaching | 163  | Creative Writing | 28 |      |
|               | TOTAL            | 1073 | TOTAL            | 71 |      |
| **2012-2013** | English          | 1122 | English          | 51 | 1395 |
|               | English Teaching | 199  | Creative Writing | 23 |      |
|               | TOTAL            | 1321 | TOTAL            | 74 |      |
| **2011-2012** | English          | 1234 | English          | 48 | 1517 |
|               | English Teaching | 212  | Creative Writing | 23 |      |
|               | TOTAL            | 1446 | TOTAL            | 71 |      |

## Courses Taught (English major)

(individual courses offered, this does not reflect multiple sections of each individual course)

| | **Winter** | **Spring** | **Summer** | **Fall** | **TOTAL** |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **2015** | no data (avg. 88) | 27 | 32 | 101 | 248 |
| **2014** | 89 | 33 | no data (avg. 26) | 100 | 248 |
| **2013** | 91 | 37 | 23 | 102 | 253 |
| **2012** | 85 | 33 | 22 | 97 | 237 |

Of these courses in the English major, those specific to creative writing:

- ENGL 218 (Intro to Creative Writing)
- ENGL 317 (Writing Creative non-Fiction (also listed as Wilderness Writing))
- ENGL 318 (Fiction Writing)
- ENGL 319 (Writing Poetry)
- ENGL 320 (Writing for Children and Teenagers)
- ENGL 337 (History and Theory of the Essay)
- ENGL 419 (Advanced Creative Writing (also listed as Flash non-fiction))
- ENGL 617 (Writing Writing Theory)
- ENGL 670 (Writing the Young Adult Novel)
- ENGL 667 (Graduate non-FictionWorkshop)
- ENGL 668 (Fiction Workshop)
- ENGL 669 (Graduate Poetry Workshop)
- HONRS 300 (Travel Writing)

## Faculty (English Department)

- 59 full-time (all PhD's)
- 67 adjunct (5 PhD's)

## Research Interests

The English Department at BYU currently includes eight full-time faculty (all eight PhD's) specializing in creative writing. Representing fiction writers, essayists, and poets (including the current (2012- ) Poet Laureate of the State of Utah).Their research interests include the short story, the novel, poetry, the essay, and wilderness writing.

## Related Departments/<wbr>Disciplines/<wbr>Programs/<wbr>Subject Areas

The fiction collection provides background and context to inform and enrich the interests many departments and programs, including:

- Department of Communication
- Department of Comparative Arts &amp; Letters
- Department of English
- Department of Linguistics and English Language
- Department of Psychology
- Department of Theater and Media Arts

And because fiction has cross-disciplinary implications, this collection also offers support for research and teaching in other Western European language and literature departments (*e.g.*, French, Italian, Spanish and Portuguese, German) as well as area studies such as African Studies.

## Subject Librarian Annual Collection Development Reports

### 2015

**English Department Reading Series (ERS).** Of the many electronic resources, new serials subscriptions, etc., added during 2015 in my subject areas, there were none specifically pertaining to fiction (study or practice). However, I continued to work with the English Department to produce the weekly English Department Reading Series (now in its 12th+ year). This weekly event brings in creative writers (fiction writers, poets, essayists) from the BYU English Department, as well as from outside the University to read in the Library auditorium. Following the reading, an author reception and book-signing is held in the Special Collections classroom. Generally, attendance at the readings is over 120, an at the author reception and book signing, from 50-80. Also, one of the readings each semester is devoted to a student writing contest, wherein a student poet, essayist, and fiction writer is chosen to read at the weekly series. The weekly series has become so popular that several year ago it was "official-ized" into a for-credit course: ENGL 321R that has, typically, from 40-70 students enrolled each winter and fall semester.

**Collaboration on Science Fiction Titles for "Sampler."** During Fall semester 2015, I collaborated with Rebecca Boughan, who produced a list of (over 100) current science fiction titles needed for "Sampler." I funded the purchase from my "Fiction" budget, and after two years these volumes will move from Sampler into the general science fiction stacks collection in PZ 4.

### 2014

**California Preservation Program (CALIPR).** During Winter semester 2014, I worked with Christina Thomas and Kohleen Reeder (of the Conversation Lab), under the direction of Scott Duvall (AUL for Special Collections), on a CALIPR assessment of the Lee Library's PZ 4 (Science Fiction) collection. The objective of the CALIPR assessment was to determine the best way to preserve and maintain this heavily-circulating collection. I gathered physical data on the collection (amount of shelving, number of volumes, etc.), we ran a software program that determined the survey sample we would take, and finally from the sample, a student and I entered data about the condition of each volume. From there, Christina and Kohleen took the sample of PZ 4 volumes for needed repair. This was the first time a CALIPR assessment had been conducted in the HBLL, and this "pilot" will provide insights into how to use CALIPR for future collection assessments.

**Electronic Resources.** Of the many electronic resources added during 2014 in my subject areas, those pertaining to fiction (study and practice) included:

- _Partridge Slang Online_. The first authoritative slang dictionary online. Acknowledged to be the most authoritative and comprehensive dictionary of slang in the world. Contains over 60,000 entries, dating back to the 1600's.
- _Punch Magazine Archive_. The complete 1841 to 1992 run of the world's most celebrated magazine of humor and satire.
- _Travel Writing, Spectacle and World History_. Hundreds of accounts by women of their travels across the globe from the early 19<sup>th</sup> century to the late 20<sup>th</sup> century.

### 2013

**New Serials Subscriptions.** During 2013, I used serials cancellation money I'd amassed / earned to start subscriptions for requested journals we lacked (and / or to purchase needed back issues, restart cancelled subscriptions). Those that support fiction (study and practice) included:

- _The Normal School_
- _Fourth Genre_
- _Creative Nonfiction_

**Electronic Resources.** Of the many electronic resources added during 2013 in my subject areas, those pertaining to fiction (study and practice) included:

- _Illustrated London News_ (1842-2003). The full-run of the world's first fully illustrated weekly newspaper.
- _International Women's Periodicals, 1786-1933: Social and Political Issues_.
- _19_<sup>th</sup> _Century U.K. Periodicals Series 1: New Readerships: Women's, Children's, Humor and Leisure/Sport_.
- _Women, War &amp; Society 1914-1918_. A digital archive collected from the "Women at Work Collection" at the Imperial War Museum.
- _World War I Trench Journals._ Primary source periodicals written by and for servicemen and women of all nations during the First World War.
- _John Johnson Collection of Printed Ephemera_. Items selected from the John Johnson Collection of Printed Ephemera, offering unique insights into the changing nature of everyday life in Britain in the 18<sup>th</sup>, 19<sup>th</sup>, and early 20<sup>th</sup> centuries.

## 2012

**Electronic Resources.** Of the many electronic resources added during 2012 in my subject areas, those pertaining to fiction (study and practice) included:

- _London Low Life_
- _World War I Personal Histories_
- _19_<sup>th</sup> _Century British Library Newspapers part II_
- _19_<sup>th</sup> _Century UK Periodicals part I_
- _German Folklore and Popular Culture_
- _Nineteenth Century Collections Online_ (NCCO)
- _Eighteenth-Century Journals Portal, Section V:_ _The Lady's Magazine_ _and Other Titles, 1712-1835_
- _The Lily: A Temperance and Feminist Newspaper, 1849-1856_ (co-sponsored with Connie Lamb)
