---
fund: 34318
fund-name: Nutrition, Dietetics, & Food Science
file-name: 34318 NDFS.docx
tags:
 - Greg Nelson
---

## Overview

The library seeks to support teaching and research in Nutrition, Dietetic and Food Science at the Teaching level.

## About the Department

The undergraduate program offers Bachelor of Science degrees for Nutritional Science, Dietetics and Food Science. Nutritional Science students are prepared to enter graduate programs and careers in biotechnology, nutraceutical industries, food security and health advocacy organizations. Dietetics students apply to be in the Didactic Program for Dietetics in their Junior year. They are prepared to become Registered Dieticians able to work as a dietician in many settings, such as clinical, community, and managerial setting. Students in Food Science are prepared for a variety of careers, such as in new food product development, food quality assurance and government regulatory agencies. Undergraduates in NDFS use the library heavily and are regularly engaged with the subject librarian.

The graduate program has Master&#39;s of Science in both Nutritional Science and Food Science.  Nutritional Science students usually are prepared to enter professional degree programs or work in industry. Food Science students are prepared to work in the food industry as product development scientists, technical specialists, government regulators or enter professional degree programs. A written thesis is required for all Master&#39;s students.

## Formats

NDFS faculty and students use online databases and journal articles as their predominant source of information. Online journal article access is available through publisher packages, database subscriptions, and individual title management. Books are purchased mainly via the YBP approval plan. Three to four times a year faculty are provided with a list of new books from YBP slips and queried for firm order requests; very few firm order purchases are made without faculty request. Circulation rates are quite low for monographs. E-books are purchased where possible, to increase accessibility and use.

## Degree Programs and Collecting Levels

- Bachelor of Science, Nutritional Science: Teaching Level
- Bachelor of Science, Dietetics: Teaching Level
- Bachelor of Science, Food Science: Teaching Level
- Master of Science, Nutritional Science: Teaching Level
- Master of Science, Food Science: Teaching Level

## Research Interests

- Clinical malnutrition screening and assessment
- Pediatric nutrition
- Nutrition education
- Selenium and prostate cancer prevention
- Micronutrient fortification and stability
- Folic acid content of foods
- Long-term storage stability of staple foods and commodities
- Effects of diet and exercise on metabolism and bone
- Glucose management
- Diabetes
- Sensory Analysis
- Relationships between sensory science and marketing
- Food engineering
- Dairy and meat science
- Natural anti-cancer chemotherapeutic compounds
- Food safety of ready-to-eat meat products
- Solar drying of indigenous food products in Africa and the Pacific
- Microbial reduction of natural nitrate compounds
- Beta cell stimulation and proliferation

## Subject Librarian Annual Collection Reports

### 2015

- **JoVE evaluation**. Evaluated the use of the Journal of Visualized Experiments (JoVE) and potential need for acquiring or cancelling sections.
