---
fund: 34250
fund-name: Physics & Astronomy
file-name: 34250 Physics and Astronomy.docx
tags:
 - Dan Broadbent
---

## Overview

The library supports its physics and astronomy collection at the Research level. While the undergraduate degrees are nominally supported at the Teaching level, there are corresponding doctoral programs for those degrees as well. This combined with the fact that a senior research thesis is required for all undergraduate degrees, a Research level of support is needed even for the undergraduate degrees.

The library supports the curricular and research needs of the collection through monograph purchases and database and periodical subscriptions. The vast majority of resources within this discipline are journals with monographs playing only a minor role.

Monographs are primarily collected via approval plans and various demand driven acquisition agreements with vendors. This is supplemented by specific faculty resource requests. This model allows for increased usage of the collection as we are primarily collecting the resources actually used. As a general rule, e-book versions of resources are preferred unless there is a preference for the physical versions.

Journal subscriptions make up the bulk of the resources for this collection and are almost exclusively electronic. In fact, many of the journals subscribed to no longer have the option for physical volumes. Faculty expect not only access to current issues and articles but electronic access to back issues as well. When negotiating subscriptions, every effort is taken to find the most cost effective way to guarantee this access.

The fund covers the QC (physics) and QB (astronomy) call numbers as well as a small slice of the TA classification code (TA1501-1820) dealing with applied optics and photonics.

## Degree Programs & Collecting Levels

The following degrees and minors are supported by this collection.

### Degrees

- BS Physics – Teaching Level
- BS Physics-Astronomy – Teaching Level
- BS Applied Physics – Teaching Level
- BS Physics Teaching – Teaching Level
- BS Teaching Physical Science – Teaching Level
- MS Physics – Research Level
- PhD Physics – Research Level
    - Atomic, Molecular, and Optical Physics
    - Acoustics
    - Condensed Matter
    - Plasma
    - Theoretical and Mathematical Physics
- PhD Physics and Astronomy – Research Level

### Minors

- Astronomy – Teaching Level
- Physics – Teaching Level
- Physics Teaching – Teaching Level

## Research Interests

The Department of Physics and Astronomy has 41 faculty members with research that cover the full spectrum of physics and astronomy topics ranging from acoustics to plasma physics to lasers and black holes to extrasolar planets.

## Departments/<wbr>Disciplines/<wbr>Programs/<wbr>Subject Areas

This collection is primarily aimed at the Department of Physics and Astronomy in the College of Physical and Mathematical Sciences. However, as the fundamental physics concepts covered by this collection for the underpinnings of much of our modern infrastructure, it also supports departments in the College of Engineering and other departments within the College of Physical and Mathematical Sciences.

## Annual Collection Reports

### 2015

- **Notable Acquisitions**
    - International Tables of Crystallography
- **Notable Cancellations**
  - Journals Converted to on-line only
     - Modern physics letters A
     - Modern physics letters. B, Condensed matter physics, statistical physics, applied physics
     - International journal of modern physics. B, Condensed matter physics, statistical physics, applied physics
