---
fund: 34365
fund-name: Popular Reading
file-name: 34365 Popular Reading.docx
tags:
 - Rebecca Boughan
---

## Overview

The library seeks to support recreational reading as well as the use of popular literature to benefit students both in and out of the classroom.

## Research interests

The Popular Reading collection is designed to collect a sampling of current literature from a variety of genres.  Collection development is based on patron demand as measured through circulation statistics. Emphasis is also given to what is popular among the general population through lists such as the New York Times Bestsellers and others.

## Departments/<wbr/>Disciplines/<wbr/>Programs/<wbr/>Subject Areas

### The primary genres collected are:

<div class="col">
  <ul>
    <li>Biography</li>
    <li>Classics</li>
    <li>Fantasy</li>
    <li>General Fiction</li>
    <li>Graphic Novels</li>
    <li>Humor</li>
    <li>Mormon</li>
  </ul>
</div>

<div class="col">
  <ul>
    <li>Motivational</li>
    <li>Mystery</li>
    <li>Nonfiction</li>
    <li>Romance</li>
    <li>Science Fiction</li>
    <li>Western</li>
  </ul>
</div>

<span style="clear:both;"></span>

<h2 style="clear:both">Subject Librarian Annual Collections Report</h2>

### 2015

- 572 new books added to the collection
- In 2015 there were a total of 37,611 circulations from the Sampler collection. This represents an increase of 17,320 over 2014.
- Waiting for data from LIT:
    - \# of checkouts of books added in 2014
    - \# of checkouts of books added in 2015

## Program assessments and changes

The fantasy genre receives the most circulation from BYU patrons. This reflects the current popularity of fantasy in literature, as well as other media, in the general population as well. The graphic novel collection continues to increase in popularity and amounts to a surprisingly large amount of the check outs considering the relatively small size of the collection. This area warrants further development. The Western genre seems to be fairly outdated for a "Popular Reading" collection and is receiving less than 400 checkouts per year for the entire section (less than 1% of total usage). It may be time to stop collecting in this area and possibly change up the configuration of the physical area. Although the World Classics are shelved in the Popular Reading area, they have regular LC call numbers and do not show up in the SAMP circulation report. Additionally, since Classics are by definition older materials, this is a static collection and does not warrant additional development (although materials are still evaluated for replacement when damaged). The Romance collection is one where the tastes of the general populace cannot be used to guide selection decisions and care must be taken to ensure that materials purchased are appropriate to our collection. Although I am not actively weeding previously purchased titles, the titles added to the collection since I took over are all classified as "clean romance" and will support the desires of students looking for wholesome and romantic reading material. The bulk of the usage in the Mormon collection is for Mormon romance novels that meet this criteria and I believe that adding this facet to the Romance collection will only increase usage there. We are collecting Mormon materials from every LDS approval vendor in the general stacks and in Special Collections. So as to maximize the budgeted funds by limiting duplication, I have begun selecting Mormon materials from self-published works. In all cases so far, these self-published works are from LDS authors who have had at least one work published by a mainstream LDS publishing house, but who have branched out on their own (or with a group of other LDS authors) to publish their own books going forward. There was a session at ULA a few years ago where several well-known LDS authors spoke about how they see the future of LDS publishing is self-publishing and many are not even trying to go the traditional route any longer.
