---
fund: 34182
fund-name: Public Management
file-name: 34182 Public Management.docx
tags:
 - Leticia Camacho
---

## Overview

The library supports Public Administration in all areas and specializations. It is the goal of the Harold. B. Lee Library to support teaching and research though the Ph.D. degree research level (level 4) in Public Administration.

The MPA students graduate with the fundamental management skills and specialized training needed to positively impact the organizations they enter and to contribute to the improvement of society through their careers. The Romney Institute of Public Administration has three sectors and three skills and students choose one of each. The three sectors are: Nonprofit, Local Government, and State & Federal Government. The skills include Resource Development, Program Management, and Finance.

There are 12 full time MPA faculty, 3 full time faculty from other business areas who teach management and ethics courses, 5 adjunct faculty for the EMPA program, 16 adjunct faculty for the MPA program, and 5 administrative staff.

Some of the areas of interest for Pubic Administration teaching and research in recent decades have included topics related to entrepreneurship, finance financial services, marketing, general business, operations management, human resources, management, public and not-for-profit, global management, business ethics, marketing management, managerial economics, and management communication.

The library seeks to support research and teaching through targeted acquisitions, both of new and retrospective materials.  Relevance and potential use for teaching and/or research are paramount, and a further factor is the quality of scholarship and presentation.  For books, both print and digital formats are collected; where there is a choice, the default is for an e-book. Demand-driven acquisition is used where possible, since it saves money and guarantees usage.

## Degree Programs and Collecting Level

- Master of Public Administration: Research Level
- Master of Executive Pubic Administration:  Research Level
- JD/MPA Degrees: Research Level

## Departments/<wbr>Disciplines/<wbr>Programs/<wbr>Subject Areas

The Public Administration collections also reflect the interests of the following departments and programs:

- Political Science Department
- Government Documents
- Law

## Subject Librarian Annual Collection Reports

- **Notable acquisitions (collections, journals, databases)**
    - [GuideStar Database](http://dbs.lib.byu.edu/guidestar)
    - [VOLUNTAS: International Journal of Voluntary and Nonprofit Organizations](https://lib.byu.edu/remoteauth/?url=http://link.springer.com/journal/volumesAndIssues/11266)
    - [Foundation Finder Database (The Foundation Center)](http://dbs.lib.byu.edu/foundation-finder-(the-foundation-center))
    - [LegiStorm Database](http://dbs.lib.byu.edu/legistorm)
    - [Statista Database](http://dbs.lib.byu.edu/statista)
- **Funding adjustments**
    - No reduction or added funding
- **Liaison actions pertaining to collections**
    - Consultation on new course related to business presentation skills
        - Consultation on new course related to business writing
        - Consultation on library presentation for the Administrative Environment course (Introduction to Public Administration)
- **Funding adjustments**
    - None
- **Liaison actions pertaining to collections**
    - Added business communication resources to the [MPA library page](http://guides.lib.byu.edu/mpa)
    - Purchased materials related to business communication skills and business ethics
