---
fund: 34247
fund-name: Computer Science
file-name: 34247 Computer Science.docx
tags:
 - Dan Broadbent
---

## Overview

This collection supports both the Computer Science discipline as well as Information Technology (IT). The former is more focused on the science behind computers and their operation while the latter is more focused on the practical application of those ideas.

The library supports its computer science collection at the Research level. The information technology portion of the collection is supported at the Teaching level. In addition, due to the ubiquity of computers and computing devices in modern society, a broad Representative level collection of resources for the non-specialist is collected as well. Finally select topics are collected at the higher Research level as needed to support individual faculty research programs.

The library supports the curricular and research needs of the collection through monograph purchases and database and periodical subscriptions. Within the computer science field, the majority of resources within this discipline are journals with monographs playing a lesser role. Monographs, particularly technical manuals, play a larger role in the information technology field.

Monographs are primarily collected via approval plans and various demand driven acquisition agreements with vendors. This is supplemented by specific faculty resource requests. This model allows for increased usage of the collection as we are primarily collecting the resources actually used. As a general rule, e-book versions of resources are preferred unless there is a preference for the physical versions. Additionally, the university is part of a consortial agreement that provides access to Safari Tech Books On-line, a heavily used resource within this field.

Journal subscriptions make up the bulk of the resources for this collection and are almost exclusively electronic. Faculty expect not only access to current issues and articles but electronic access to back issues as well. When negotiating subscriptions, every effort is taken to find the most cost effective way to guarantee this access.

This fund covers a portion of the QA call number range, QA 71 – 76.765 (Instruments and Machines), and select portions of the T call number range: T 58.5 – 58.64 (Information Technology), TK 5101 – 6720 (Telecommunications), and TR 897 – 899 (Digital Imaging and Video software).

## Degree Programs & Collecting Levels

The following degrees and minors are supported by this collection.

### Degrees

- BS Computer Science – Teaching Level
    - Bioinformatics Emphasis
    - Animation Emphasis
- BS Information Technology – Teaching Level
    - Application Development Emphasis
    - Communications & Media Emphasis
    - Cyber-Security Emphasis
    - Embedded & Mobile Systems Emphasis
    - Genealogy & Family History Emphasis
    - Health Informatics Emphasis
    - Social Computing Emphasis
    - System & Network Administration Emphasis
    - User Experience & Human-Computer Interaction Emphasis
    - Web Technologies Emphasis
- MS Computer Science – Teaching Level
- MS Technology – Teaching Level
- Ph.D. Computer Science – Research Level

### Minors

- Computer Science
- Computer Science Teaching
- Information Technology

## Research Interests

The Department of Computer Science has a total of 38 faculty with a wide range of research interests cover all aspects of computer science. The IT group in the School of Technology contains an additional 8 faculty with a wide variety of research interests in the IT field.

## Departments/<wbr>Disciplines/<wbr>Programs/<wbr>Subject Areas

This collection is designed to support the Department of Computer Science and the Information Technology group in the School of Technology. However, with the ubiquitous nature of computers and computing devices in modern society, this collection also supports a number a general interest resources used by the campus community at large.
