---
fund: 34351
fund-name: Western America
tags:
  - Albert Winkler
---

## Overview
Fund Code 34351 is designed to support teaching, classes, course work, and research in the areas of the history of the American West at Brigham Young University and in aiding faculty, students, and other patrons.  The BYU Library supports all academic levels at the university, but the Fund Code 34351 specifically relates to curricula in the following areas.

- The American West
- Exploration of the American West
- Trapping and fur trade in the American West
- Boundary settlements between the US, Canada, and Mexico
- The War with Mexico
- Westward migration
- Settling and city building in the American West
- Building the transcontinental railroad
- Mining in the American West
- Indian wars on the Great Plains and areas farther West
- Mormon migration and settlement in the Great Basin
- Development of the economies of the American West

## Local Histories
The Fund Code 34351 also includes state and local histories in the entire West US.  

## Department Support
Fund Code 34351 is specifically designed to support the History Department in all aspects including teaching, research, writing, and publications.

## Genealogy and Local History Support
Since Fund Code 34351 includes regional, state, city, and local history of the West US, and it is particularly valuable for State and Local History research.

## Other Department Support
Since history overlaps with many other disciplines, Fund Code 34351 may be valuable to other areas of study.  This could include but would not be limited to Anthropology, Religious Studies, Archaeology, Geography, Native American Studies, Military history, Political Science, and International relations.

## History Degree Programs Supported
- American Indian Studies (Minor): Teaching level
- History (BA): Teaching level
- History (Minor): Teaching level
- Family History–Genealogy (BA): Teaching level
- Family History–Genealogy (Minor): Teaching Level
- History teaching (BA): Teaching level
- History teaching (Minor): Teaching level
- Teaching Social Science (BS): Teaching Level

## Classes Supported
- History 200: Historian’s Craft
- History 220: US through 1877
- History 221: US Since 1877
- History 225: The Quest for the American Character
- History 360: American West to 1900
- History 361: The American West Since 1900
- History 364: Utah
- History 371: Revolutionary America
- History 373: Civil War Era, 1848-1877
- History 374: US History 1890-1945
- History 376: U.S. History from 1945 to 2000
- History 382: Mormonism and the American Experience
- History 386: American Indian History to 1830
- History 387: American Indian History from 1830 to the Present
- History 390R: Native American Family History Research
- History 390R: World of Lewis and Clark
- History 490: Capstone Research Seminar

## History Faculty Research and Teaching Supported
- Diana Duan
- Aaron Skabelund
- Leslie Hadfield
- Ed Stratford
- Mark Christensen
- Sarah Reed
- Karen Auman
- George Ryskamp
- Christopher Hodson
- Neil York
- Matthew Mason
- Christopher Jones
- Christian Heimburger
- Cameron McCoy
- Andrew Johns
- David-James Gonzales
- Shawn Miller
- Grant Underwood
- Ignacio Garcia
- Jay Buckley
- Jeff Nokes

## Subject Librarian Annual Collection Reports

### 2018
- Patron input: I seek recommendations from history faculty, students, and other patrons for the purchase of books, journals, and electronic sources to meet their research and educational needs. This includes areas of personal interest, research, teaching, and publications. To accomplish this, I seek to provide relevant resources in a timely manner and to supply relevant and timely library expertise to these assignments.
- Audio Books: Recently there has been a number of requests that audio books be made available.
- This fund code has relatively small amounts of money in it, and it is designed to maintain and improve the library collections dealing with the history of the American West. This includes state and local histories in all areas west of the Rocky Mountains.  This fund code is also designed to support collections dealing with emigration and immigration, Indian Wars, military posts, settlement patters, development of transportation, conservation, and water use.
