---
fund: 34180
fund-name: Business Management
file-name: 34180 Business Management.docx
tags:
 - Andy Spackman
---

## Overview

The Business Management fund supports the Marriott School of Management. Although it is primarily intended to support the Department of Finance and the Deparment of Marketing and Global Supply Chain, the interdisciplinary and collaborative nature of teaching and research in the Marriott School means this fund supports a wide variety of interests, including those represented by centers like the Ballard Center for Economic Self-Reliance, the Global Management Center, field studies programs, and the MBA program.

Faculty research often centers on original datasets, although third-party, proprietary datasets are essential for some. Faculty also require robust access to scholarly journals in these fields. Although some students intend to become academics and have research needs similar to faculty, the majority will become practitioners after receiving their undergraduate or master degree. In addition to scholarly journals, industry and news publications are important, and all students require access to databases that provide the kinds of applied research and actionable business intelligence that they will work with during their careers.

The nature of business research prioritizes current information provided by ongoing subscriptions rather than one-time archival acquisitions.

## Degree Programs and Collecting Level

- Bachelor of Science, Management: Teaching Level
- Bachelor of Science, Finance: Teaching Level
- Master of Business Administration: Teaching Level

## Research Interests

<div class="col">
  <ul>
    <li>Behavioral Finance
    <li>Branding
    <li>Consumer Psychology
    <li>Corporate Finance
    <li>Entrepreneurship
    <li>Ethics
    <li>Financial Economics
    <li>Financial Markets
    <li>Global Business
  </ul>
</div>

<div class="col">
  <ul>
    <li>Logistics
    <li>Marketing
    <li>Marketing Analytics
    <li>Operations Management
    <li>Personal Finance
    <li>Real Estate
    <li>Services Management
    <li>Social Responsibility
    <li>Supply Chain
  </ul>
</div>

<span style="clear:both;"></span>

## Related Departments/<wbr>Disciplines/<wbr>Programs
- The Business Management collections also reflect the interests of the following departments and programs:
    - Accounting
    - Communications
    - Economics
    - Engineering and Technology
    - Information Systems
    - Law
    - Organizational Leadership and Strategy
    - Public Management
    - Recreation Management

## Formats Collected
- Databases are key for some faculty and most students. The majority of these are subscription-based.
- Journals subscriptions and reference materials should be electronic whenever possible. Electronic is generally preferred for monographs as well, with the exception of popular level books which will usually be collected in print. Some popular books receive high use and multiple copies, print and electronic, are warranted.
- Audiovisual materials will be acquired as requested by faculty to support learning objectives for specific courses.

## Annual Collection Reports

### 2015

- **Notable Acquisitions**
    - _Panjiva_: database, subscription, serving supply chain students and faculty
    - _Markets of the Future_: add-on to the Euromonitor International Passport database, one-time purchase, serving global business, economics, and marketing
    - _International Trade Centre_: database, subscription, serving supply chain, economics, and global business
    - _Simmons Quick Reports_: add-on to the Simmons OneView database, subscription, serving marketing, advertising, public relations, and entrepreneurship
    - _Mintel Trends_: database, subscription, serving marketing, advertising, public relations, and entrepreneurship
