---
fund: 34300
fund-name: Technology and Engineering Education
file-name: 34300 Technology and Engineering Education.docx
tags:
 - David Pixton
---

## I. Overview

This policy covers the Technology and Engineering Education Department within the School of Technology within the Ira A. Fulton College of Engineering and Technology. The Harold B. Lee Library supports the curricular and research needs of the department through monographic purchases and periodical and database subscriptions.

## II. Curriculum and Research

### A) Curriculum

Technology and Engineering Education prepares men and women of sound character to teach technology and engineering in grades 6-12. These men and women are expected to lead their profession, advance technological literacy, and carry forth the mission of BYU. TEE graduates are expected to obtain the skills they need for lifelong learning and service in the education profession. Student teaching is included as part of the curriculum.

The program offers a Bachelor of Science degree in Technology Engineering Education and a MS in Technology Engineering Education through the Ira R. Fulton College of Engineering. There are 3 full-time faculty members in the department.

### B) Research

Emphasis within the program includes:

- Graphic Design and Multimedia
- Information Technology
- Computer Science
- Engineering Prep &amp; Electronics
- Architecture and Furniture Design
- Construction Systems
- Manufacturing
- Skilled and Technical Sciences

## III. Subject and Formats

### A) Scope

The library collects Technology and Engineering Education monographs and periodicals on theory and practice at a level 4 (research) to support the faculty and students and common texts on a level 2 (selective) to support demand. Other subject areas are also collected on a level 3 (curricular).

### B) Type

Original research, abstracts, reference works are collected. ERIC (EBSCO), the preferred database for education, is provided along with databases in support of engineering and technology including: Compendex, the search engine representing the collective indexing work of the Engineering Index® , ProQuest Research Library: Science and Technology, Computers and Applied Sciences Complete (EBSCO), and Web of Science (ISI). Popular treatments, textbooks, and course materials are collected selectively. Other types are generally not collected

### C) Format

Monographs, serials in electronic form are collected preferentially. Audiovisual materials are collected selectively. Microforms and manuscripts are generally not collected.

### D) time

Materials published during the last 10 years are collected extensively. Materials published during the previous 20-30 years are collected very selectively. Materials published prior to 1950 are generally not collected.

### E) Languages

English is the preferred language and is collected extensively. Other languages are generally excluded or collected very selectively based on unique content that has not been translated into English

### F) Geographic Focus

No particular area of the World is favored however most materials come from North America and Europe.

## IV. Other

### A) Related Collections and Overlap

There is overlap in many other areas such as mechanical and electrical engineering, IT, manufacturing, etc., but are considered part of the collection development policy for this discipline only when applicable. Theory is separate and is generally found only in the Technology and Engineering Education literature.

### B) Cooperative resources and programs

Various consortia arrangements on a library wide scale have been entered into to ensure full text availability of periodicals and other collections.

## V. Classed Analysis

### Technology and Engineering Education Technology

#### Classed Analysis

| **LC Classification** | **Subject** | **Collecting Level** |
| --- | --- | --- |
| T61-173 | Technical Education. | |
| T61-173 | Technical education. Technical schools | Research |
| T | Engineering | Rely on Engineering (ME, ECEn, etc.) Collection Development Policies |
| L | Education | Rely on Education Collection Development Policy |
| LC1041-1048 | Vocational education (General) | Rely on Education Collection Development Policy |

