---
fund: 34245
fund-name: Mathematics
file-name: 34245 Mathematics.docx
tags:
 - Dan Broadbent
---

## Overview

The library supports its mathematics collection overall at the research level as the Department of Mathematics provides both undergraduate and graduate degrees. The library supports the curricular and research needs of the collection through monograph purchases and database and periodical subscriptions. While the majority of resources within this discipline are journals, monographs, often print only, still play an important role in the discipline.

Monographs are collected via a combination of approval plans, standing orders, demand driven acquisition (DDA) agreements and specific faculty requests. The library subscribes to a number of printed monograph series which are purchased via standing orders while most of the other print monographs come through our approval plans. Where possible the library prefers to collect e-books over printed materials but many resources in this field are still print only. The DDA model is quite popular with the mathematics text and accounts for a large portion of the monograph purchases.

Journal subscriptions represent the majority of the collection and most of these are collected electronically. Faculty expect not only access to current issues and articles but electronic access to back issues as well. When negotiating subscriptions, every effort is taken to find the most cost effective way to guarantee this access.

This collections covers part of the QA (Mathematics) call number range. Specifically it covers the ranges QA 1 – 59, QA 101 – 272.5, and QA 440 – 939. The other portions of the QA range are covered by Computer Science and Statistics.

## Degree Programs & Collecting Levels

The following degrees and minors are supported by this collection.

### Degrees

- BS Mathematics – Teaching Level
    - Applied and Computational Mathematics Emphasis
- BS Mathematics Education – Teaching Level
- MS Mathematics – Research Level
- MA Mathematics Education – Research Level
- Ph.D. Mathematics – Research Level

### Minors

- Mathematics

## Research Interests

The Department of Mathematics and Department of Math Education combined have a total of 55 faculty members with a wide range of research interests across all aspects of mathematics and mathematics education.

## Departments/<wbr>Disciplines/<wbr>Programs/<wbr>Subject Areas

This collection is aimed at supporting both the Department of Mathematics and the Department of Mathematics Education. However, as the fundamental mathematical concepts covered by this collection are used across all aspects of modern society, some portion of the collection is used by a wide demographic across all colleges and departments on campus.

## Annual Collection Reports

### 2015

- **Notable Acquisitions**
    - Journals
        - Journal of Fluid Mechanics
        - International Journal of Number Theory
        - Acta Arithmetica
        - Experimental Mathematics
- **Notable Cancellations**
    - Journals Cancelled
        - Primus
        - Cahiers de topologie et géométrie différentielle catégoriques
        - Questions and Answers in general Topology
        - The [Pi]ME Journal
        - Mathematics Today
    - Journals Converted to on-line only
        - Integral and Differential Equations
        - International Journal of Mathematics
        - Mathematical Models & Methods in Applied Sciences
