---
fund: 34103
fund-name: Mormon History & Doctrine (BX 8600s)
custom-fund: Funds 34102, 34103, 34104
custom-fund-name: Mormon Media, Mormon History & Doctrine (BX 8600s), Mormon Media (Spoken Word)
file-name: 34103 Mormon Studies.docx
tags:
 - Gerrit van Dyk
---
## Aims of the Collection

1. Primary purpose of the collection is to support the teaching, research, and studying of BYU faculty and students. As such, the collection will primarily be made up of quality works of scholarship.
2. A secondary purpose of the collection is to support the life-long learning of BYU constituents. This means that cultural artifacts which have low scholarly quality will still find their way into the collection.

## What the Collection is Not (Collecting Level: Curricular)

The collection is not comprehensive, but rather, curricular. Special Collections collects comprehensive Mormonism. The open stacks will never have the same amount of material.

## Degrees

This collection serves no major but all 30,000 students must take 14 credits (or the equivalent of 6-7 courses) of religion. These students regularly choose a topic related to Mormonism for their term papers.

## Departments/<wbr>Programs/<wbr>Courses

The collection primarily serves the needs of faculty and students in the College of Religious Education, with particular emphasis on REL C and REL E courses. However, it also supports the following regularly offered courses in other areas in the academy:

- ANTHR 346 Anthropology of Mormonism
- ANTHR 530 Great Basin Archaeology
- ENGL 268 Literature of the LDS
- ENGL 368 Literature of the LDS
- GEOG 245 Geography of Utah
- HIST 364 History of Utah
- HIST 375 Joseph Smith in Mormon History
- HIST 382 Mormonism in the American Experience
- HIST 389 Mormonism Among Christian Theology
- HIST 394 Scripture in American History
- HIST 380 US Religious History Since 1860
- HIST 565 Sources and Problems in Latter-day Saint History
- HIST 566 Sources and Problems in Utah History
- PSYCH 353 LDS Perspectives & Psychology
- SFL 100 Strengthening Marriage and Family
- SOC 327 Sociology of the LDS Church and Its People
- SOC 527 Sociology of the LDS Church and Its People
- WS 332 Mormon Women's History

## Research Interests

Since there are over 40 professors on campus working in Mormon studies and allied fields, it is difficult to pin down a small list of research interests. However, recent trends point to the following for above-average growth:

### History

- LDS Women's History
- Church History Outside of the United States
- 20<sup>th</sup> Century Church History

### Doctrine

- Personal faith in the Internet Age
- Interfaith Dialogue
- Persecution and Religious Freedom

## Guidelines

Due to the nature of our institution and its students and faculty, review potential material carefully before adding to the collection. The following guidelines should be considered:

### Quality

Is the material scholarly? Regardless of history that is favorable or unfavorable to the LDS belief system, any item which has clearly been well-written and researched should be added.

1. Who is the publisher? Many books have an appearance of scholarliness but ultimately are self-published. All self-published material is suspect. Most of this material will go to special collections so the need to have a copy in the open stacks is lessened considerably. This is particularly in the case where a lay member of the church has published their personal treatise on the atonement, some other doctrinal topic, or scriptural analysis. These are typically rejected. All items published by an academic press are added to the collection.
2. Who is the author? Is it written by a prominent scholar or general authority or just a lay member of the church? High-profile authors will be included in the collection.
3. Is it a primary source? Works of diaries or personal experiences may be considered even if they are self-published. As an example, see [_I'll Go Where You Want Me To Go_](http://www.amazon.com/Ill-Go-Where-You-Want/dp/1492183962/ref=sr_1_578_title_0_main?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1399585589&sr=1-578&keywords=mormon) [/ Douglas and Sandra Banks](http://www.amazon.com/Ill-Go-Where-You-Want/dp/1492183962/ref=sr_1_578_title_0_main?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1399585589&sr=1-578&keywords=mormon). I added this because it can be helpful as a primary source on the Tonga mission. Some titles, however, can seem to be a collection of primary sources by an "editor/compiler," such as [Diary of John Nutall](http://www.amazon.com/Diary-John-Nuttall-Secretary-References/dp/1492886971/ref=sr_1_559_title_1_pap?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1399586561&sr=1-559&keywords=mormon). If this really was a good edition of the diary it would have been picked up by a reputable press. As it stands, it looks to be very sensational.

### Cultural Relevance

Does the material have significant cultural relevance? Some materials are added to the collection because many BYU students or faculty will be interested in the content for personal enrichment or experience. Rather than burden interlibrary loan, we purchase copies to fill local need. We also purchase items based on their relevance to a predominantly young single or married adult populatoin, where self-published doctrinal theology is rarely, if ever, added, self-published practical theology is.

1. As an example, we have purchased for the stacks, _Brick of Mormon Stories_, a graphic novel depicting scenes from the Book of Mormon made out of Legos. Not done by an academic publisher or author but still of broad cultural interest.
2. Practical theological works on missionary preparation or post-mission how-to books are typically added, as are some works on marriage, motherhood and fatherhood, again due to the high concentration of young single and married adults on campus. The author's actual lived experience is enough _ethos_ to justify purchasing.

### Withdrawal

As with any human endeavor, there have likely been things which do not match these two criteria that have been added to the collection. The subject librarian should consider weeding the collection periodically based on these guidelines and usage to increase the usefulness and strengthen the integrity of the collection.

## Librarian Collection Reports

### 2015

- Brought up most titles from AUXSTOR PER to PER with a few exceptions; eliminated third and fourth copy runs of select periodicals
- Downsized MORMONACQ books based on current copies and usage
- Recommended keeping Bookstore review shelves in Acquisitions area

### 2014

- No notable changes to policies
