---
fund: 34135
fund-name: Asian Area Studies
file-name: 34135 Asian Area Studies.docx
tags:
 - Gail King
---

## Overview

The library seeks to support teaching and research in Asian area studies. In the context of BYU these are East Asian area studies: China, Japan, and Korea. Support for the small Southeast Asian Studies instructional program is basic; support for South Asian and Central Asian area studies is minimal. The Asian Area Studies 34135 fund is used to purchase and provide access to materials in primarily English, with selected important research materials in other Western languages, to support research and instruction in Asian area studies. Language and literature materials written in any language, including all Western languages and Chinese, Japanese, and Korean, are paid for by the Asian Languages fund [34235]({{ site.github.url }}/policies/34235). (The [Asian language fund 34235]({{ site.github.url }}/policies/34235) also pays for all materials in all subjects in Chinese, Japanese, and Korean that are housed in the Asian Collection.)

Increasingly, area studies are cross-disciplinary. This trend is visible in faculty research interests and in the focus of student research projects and mentored learning projects completed under the direction of faculty. These developments and trends in the field must inform our collection acquisition and collection development planning and decisions. Instructional materials are acquired based on courses taught at BYU; research materials are acquired based on specific research interests of faculty members.

 The following guidelines for acquisition and collection emphases have been developed in collaboration with the Asian Studies faculty.

## Chinese Studies

### A. Chinese History
1. Prehistory and archaeological studies
2. Historical periods
    - Shang through Han
    - Three Kingdoms through Tang
    - Ming through 21st century

Emphasize aspects of culture, society, and governmental organization

### B. Chinese Government & Politics
1. Contemporary Chinese politics
2. China border relations
3. Minority groups in China

## Japanese Studies

### A. Japanese History
1. Imperial army
2. Samurai culture
3. Colonization of Hokkaido
4. Primary sources on the Meiji Restoration
5. Youth groups in Taisho era and World War II
    - Military-society relations pre-1945
    - Self Defense Forces

### B. Japanese religion
- Shinto and Japanese culture
- Christianity in Japan

### C. Japanese culture and art
1. Nara-e
2. Japanese politics and government
3. Elections and personalities in elections

## Korean Studies
1. Korean History
2. Korean culture, drama, dance, music
3. Korean Politics -- and North Korea
4. Korean philosophy and religion
5. Christianity in Korea
6. Korean business and economics

## Format:
1. Buy whatever format is best for faculty and students to use.
2. In journals, prefer electronic subscriptions.
3. Documentary and feature films –
    - Prefer those subtitled in English.
    - Prefer DVD.

## Type of publication:
1. Prefer primary or source materials.
    - Conform to faculty research interests and instructional program.
    - Buy indices and specialized dictionaries.
2. Buy secondary sources or books of criticism only as faculty requests.

## Departments/<wbr>Disciplines/<wbr>Programs/<wbr>Subject Areas

The Asian Studies program reflects the interests and teaching contributions of members of the following departments and programs:

- Asian and Near Eastern (Chinese, Japanese, and Korean)
- History Department
- Political Science
- Geography
- Asian Studies program through the Kennedy Center for International Studies

## Subject Librarian Annual Collection Reports

### 2015

- **Notable acquisitions**
    - Cliff Barton books on Vietnam
    - _Oxford Bibliographies Online: Chinese Studies_
- **Program changes, new courses**
    - A new SE Asian politics course taught by Joel Selway
- **Liaison actions pertaining to collections**
    - Informal survey regarding collecting priorities
    - Emails encouraging faculty members to have their students use the Chinese Reading Shelves

### 2014

- **Liaison actions pertaining to collections**
    - Visited all faculty members and discussed research interests
    - Emails informing faculty of important new primary source databases
