---
fund: 34132
fund-name: Romance and Other European Studies
file-name: 34132 Romance and Other European Studies.docx
tags:
  - Richard Hacken
---

## Overview

Within multinational, national, regional and local studies of the French-speaking, Italian-speaking and related countries of Europe, this collection fund supports the disciplines of history (in the widest interdepartmental sense: social history, economic history, diplomatic history, religious history, etc.), of politics (also in the broad sense), as well as of contemporary and general culture. A separate major collection fund [34131]({{ site.github.url }}/policies/34131) is reserved for Germanic and General European Studies (see [separate collection statement]({{ site.github.url }}/policies/34131)). There are likewise other funds and other selectors designated for studies of Great Britain, the Iberian Peninsula and Eastern Europe.

The library generally seeks to support teaching and research in the miscellaneous and Romance branches of European Studies at the Teaching level. One exception to this is Holocaust Studies, which we collect at the Research Level. Holocaust courses are taught in a number of departments in at least two colleges. This is an example of a multidisciplinary topic that retains ongoing interest and relevance for teaching and research throughout the years. The collection fund also supports studies of other Western European countries, such as Greece and the Balkans, at a Representative Level as needed. Studies of selected other countries in Europe, especially those in danger of "falling between the cracks," (*e.g.*, in East Central Europe, Turkey or the Baltics) are likewise supported as needed.

Some of the areas of teaching and research interest in recent decades, in addition to the Holocaust, have included topics related to migration studies, Venice-Ottoman relations, the Italian renaissance, Italian women's social and religious history, French imperial studies, European religions, intellectual and cultural history, secularization, Benelux studies, French sports history, 19<sup>th</<wbr>sup> century Parisian local history, history and philosophy of faux ruins, comparative European politics and European integration. Materials for certain of these topics, those with multidisciplinary aspects, have been acquired in cooperation with other selectors.

The library seeks to support research and teaching through targeted acquisitions, both of new and retrospective materials. Relevance and potential use for teaching and/<wbr>or research are paramount, and a further factor is the quality of scholarship and presentation. For books, both print and digital formats are collected; where there is a choice, the default is for an e-book unless other factors intervene (faculty preference for paper format, need for better resolution of paper maps and illustrations, etc.)  Demand-driven acquisition is used where possible, since it saves money and guarantees usage.

## Degree Programs and Collecting Level

- Bachelor of Arts in European Studies: Teaching Level
- Bachelor of Arts in French Studies: Teaching Level
- Bachelor of Arts in Italian Studies: Teaching Level
- Master of Arts in Comparative Studies: Teaching Level

## Departments/<wbr>Disciplines/<wbr>Programs/<wbr>Subject Areas

The Romance and Miscellaneous European Studies collections also reflect the interests of the following departments and programs:

- History Department
- Political Science Department
- French Section of French and Italian Department
- Italian Section of French and Italian Department
- Interdisciplinary Humanities Section of Department of Comparative Arts and Letters
- Program of International and Area Studies, especially European Studies

Because area studies have cross-disciplinary implications, these collections also offer support for research and teaching in other departments, primarily in the Humanities and Social Sciences as well as in related area studies such as Iberian Studies, Middle East Studies, African Studies.

## Subject Librarian Annual Collection Reports

### 2016
- **Notable acquisitions (collections, journals, databases)**
  - Expansion of collections for history, politics and culture of French overseas possessions (Caribbean and Pacific) and of former French colonies (Africa)
- **Funding adjustments**
  - None
- **Liaison actions pertaining to collections**
  - Discussions on collecting for the history of Venice-Ottoman relations

### 2015
- **Notable acquisitions (collections, journals, databases)**
  - A multi-volume dictionary on the religious world in contemporary France
  - Expansion of _Torrossa_ digital library's full text platform
  - Expansion of an Italian biographical dictionary
  - Expansion of collections on modern Greek history
  - A multi-volume _New History of Ireland_
  - Location and digitization via Internet Archive of 12 volumes of _British Official Documents on the Origins of the War_ (WWI).
- **Funding adjustments**
  - None
- **Liaison actions pertaining to collections**
  - Working with a Spanish graduate student to write new transcriptions of Philip II Letters from 1592 online, including metadata augmentation.
