---
title: 34142&mdash;Family and Local History
tags:
  - Terry Dahlin
---
# <span>Fund 34142</span> Family and Local History <span>Terry Dahlin</span>

[Download (Word)]({{ site.github.url }}/assets/files/34142 Family and Local History.docx)

## Annual Budget Allocation

At the request of the library administration, all expenditures for library print monographs and serials are debited to family and local history endowment and gift accounts.

## Overview

The library supports family history and local history teaching and research at the teaching level.

Interest in family history has grown dramatically in recent years. There has been particular growth in large organizations that create enormous databases of online family history resources, such as FamilySearch, Ancestry, FindMyPast, and Accessible Archives. This online growth has led to increased library expenditures for subscriptions to large databases. There is still significant publishing of print monographs, but the publication of print journals has diminished somewhat. The need for and acquisition of microforms has been reduced, although a limited number of Utah newspapers are still being collected by the library on microfilm because that is the only medium in which they are available. The library collects both new and retrospective materials that meet the needs of university faculty and students.

## Degree Programs and Collecting Level

- Bachelor of Arts in Family History-Genealogy in the History Department: Teaching Level
- Minor in Family History-Genealogy in the History Department: Teaching Level
- Bachelor of General Studies in History (Family History Track) in the Division of Continuing Education: Teaching Level

## Service Courses Supported

- Church History and Doctrine 261 – Introduction to Family History (Genealogy)
- Church History and Doctrine 261 – Honors Introduction to Family History (Genealogy)
- Church History and Doctrine 293R – Courses offered in alternating semesters on Native American Family History; French and Italian Family History; Latin American, Spanish, and Portuguese Family History; Slavic Family History; Germanic Family History; Specialized Studies in Family History (Genealogy); LDS Family History; United States and Canada Family History; British Family History; and Scandinavian Family History.
- Church History and Doctrine 393R – Courses offered in alternating semesters on Family History in Great Britain; and Honors: Family History in Great Britain.

## Research Interests

- General family history and genealogy research sources and methods
- U.S. and European local history
- Paleography
- Specializations in various geographic, ethnic, or religious genealogical research areas, such as British family history research, LDS family history research, or Native American research.

## Departments/Disciplines/Programs

The family and local history collections reflect the interests of the following departments and programs:

- History Department
- Church History Department
- Center for Family History and Genealogy
- Division of Continuing Education

The B.A. degree in family history (genealogy) is managed by the History Department. A number of family history courses are managed by the Church History Department. The Center for Family History and Genealogy serves as a research and training arm of the History Department. The Bachelor of General Studies degree track in family history (genealogy) is managed by the Division of Continuing Education. The involvement of several campus units increases the complexity of interactions and requires more coordination by the family and local history librarian.
