---
fund: 34174
fund-name: Economics
file-name: 34174 Economics.docx
tags:
 - Brian Champion
---

## Overview

The Lee Library supports the undergraduate teaching and research, as well as faculty research needs in economics by cultivating a sound and/or contemporaneous monograph collection and a Tier 1 periodicals collections as budgets permit.

- HB—Economic theory
- HC—Economic history
- HD—Industries, land use, labor economics
- HE—Transportation/communications theories
- HJ—Public Finance

**NOT** collected on 34714: commerce, business, or finance (H-HG)

## Degree Programs:

A Bachelor of Science degree is offered in economics and students may declare a minor in the field.

The Department of Economics shares with other departments a commitment to the Mission and Aims of Brigham Young University. The department can best meet these objectives by focusing exclusively on undergraduate education. It has been our aim to purposefully design a curriculum that will provide our majors with one of the best undergraduate economics programs in the country. A careful study of economics will help students better understand the world in which they live, including issues related to economic growth, levels of employment, inflation, international trade, globalization, taxation, and finance as well as providing insight into the consequences of alternative economic policies. Additionally, a careful analysis of costs and benefits of alternative proposals facilitates effective decision making and enhances our students&#39; participation and contribution in the communities in which they live.

Modern economics makes extensive use of mathematics and statistics. The major requires competency in calculus (Math 112), and many students choose to take additional courses in calculus, linear algebra and real analysis. Economics majors take five core classes in microeconomic theory, macroeconomic theory and statistics. An additional five classes are taken in specialized field courses chosen to prepare for specific professions.

## Formats collected

### Books

The most frequent publication of status in economics is the monograph, especially one published by a major university press.

### Periodicals

The most desired serial format is periodical, especially Tier 1 periodicals, which we should have in electronic format and with extensive InterLibrary Loan (ILL) capability.

### Reference

Reference materials are less in demand and therefore is a shrinking collection, but certain handbooks or encyclopedias should still be collected and housed in Social Science Reference Collection with restricted circulation.

## Languages

English is the primary collection language, though works in other languages may be ordered is there is a possibility of regular circulation.

## Subject Librarian Annual Collection Reports

### 2016

- **Collection Development or Approvals**
    - Collection building relies on university press catalogs as well as selected trade books channeled by YBP. The monograph collection has uneven and diminishing use.
