---
fund: 34226
fund-name: Humanities
file-name: 34226 Humanities.docx
tags:
 - Elizabeth Smart
---

## Overview

The Interdisciplinary Humanities program is part of the Department of Comparative Arts and Letters in the College of Humanities. It is taught as both a general academic category (inclusive of literature, art, music, history, and philosophy) and as a discipline in its own right with a methodology for dealing with interrelationships between the various arts, and even with the social sciences and science. Bachelor of Arts degrees are offered in the program. Students can also pursue a minor in Digital Humanities & Technology. Additional funds cover specific disciplines in literature (34227, 34228, 34229), linguistics (34220), languages (34222, 34223, 34224, 34235), art history (34215), music (34221), and philosophy (34126). Fund 34226 covers resources of a broad, interdisciplinary nature.

The library seeks to support research and teaching through targeted acquisitions, both of new and retrospective materials. Relevance and potential use for teaching and/or research are paramount, and a further factor is the quality of scholarship and presentation. For books, both print and digital formats are collected; where there is a choice, the default is for an e-book.

## Degree Programs and Collecting Levels

- Bachelor of Arts degree in Interdisciplinary Humanities: Teaching Level
- Minor in Digital Humanities and Technology: Teaching Level

## Departments/<wbr>Disciplines/<wbr>Programs/<wbr>Subject Areas

The humanities collections also support the interest of the following departments and programs:

- Area Studies
- Art & Art History
- Comparative Arts & Letters
- English
- English Language & Linguistics
- Music & Dance
- Theatre & Media Arts
- Women' Studies

## Annual Collection Reports

### 2016

- **Liaison actions pertaining to collections**
    - Expansion of collection in digital humanities

### 2015

- **Liaison actions pertaining to collections**
    - Acquisition of offline copy of Eighteenth Century Collections Online for text mining purposes (English Literature & Language Librarian)
