---
fund: 34186
fund-name: Advertising and Public Relations
file-name: 34186 Advertising and Public Relations.docx
tags:
 - Andy Spackman
---

## Overview

The Advertising and Public Relations fund supports the School of Communications, particularly the faculty and students in the advertising and public relations programs, including the AdLab and the Bradley Public Relations Agency.

Faculty research often centers on original datasets, although third-party, proprietary datasets are essential for some. Faculty also require robust access to scholarly journals in these fields. Although some students intend to become academics and have research needs similar to faculty, the majority will become practitioners after receiving their undergraduate or master degree. In addition to scholarly journals, industry and news publications are important, and all students require access to databases that provide the kinds of applied or actionable consumer research that they will work with during their careers.

The nature of advertising and public relations research prioritizes current information provided by ongoing subscriptions rather than one-time archival acquisitions.

## Degree Programs and Collecting Level

- Bachelor of Art, Communications: Teaching Level

## Research Interests

- Account Planning
- Advertising
- Communications Law
- Consumer Psychology
- Creative
- Media
- Public Relations
- Reputation Management
- Strategic Communications

## Related Departments/<wbr>Disciplines/<wbr>Programs

- The Advertising and Public Relations collections also reflect the interests of the following departments and programs:
    - Master of Art, Mass Communications
    - Bachelor of Science, Management
    - Master of Business Administration
    - Master of Public Administration
    - Psychology
    - Sociology

## Formats Collected

- Databases are key for some faculty and most students. The majority of these are subscription-based.
- Journals subscriptions and reference materials should be electronic whenever possible. Electronic is generally preferred for monographs as well, with the exception of popular level books which will usually be collected in print. Some popular books receive high use and multiple copies, print and electronic, are warranted. Print should also be collected in cases where the visual design of materials is best represented in print.
- Audiovisual materials will be acquired as requested by faculty to support learning objectives for specific courses.

## Annual Collection Reports

### 2015

- **Notable Acquisitions**
  - _Simmons Quick Reports_: add-on to the Simmons OneView database, subscription, serving marketing, advertising, public relations, and entrepreneurship
  - _Mintel Trends_: database, subscription, serving marketing, advertising, public relations, and entrepreneurship
