---
fund: 34157
fund-name: Folklore
file-name: 34157 Folklore.docx
tags:
 - Robert Means
---

## Overview

While BYU has no designated Folklore major, the library seeks to support teaching and research in folklore as part of the English major through the Bachelor's and Master's level.

In recent decades, new research interests and courses of study in folklore have included ethnic folklore, urban legends, and psychological re-examinations of fairy tales. The library seeks to support research and teaching in folklore through targeted acquisitions, both of new materials and retrospectively.

## Degree Programs and Collecting Levels (English major)

- Bachelor's of Arts, English Teaching Level
- Bachelor's of Arts, English Teaching Teaching Level
- Minors: English, English Teaching, Writing and Rhetoric, Creative Writing
- Master's of Arts, English Teaching Level
- Master of Fine Arts, Creative Writing Teaching Level

## Number of Degrees Awarded (English major)

|               | **Bachelor's**   |     | **Master's**     |     | **TOTAL** |
| ---           | ---              | --- | ---              | --- | ---       |
| **2014-2015** | English          | 194 | English          | 11  | 273       |
|               | English Teaching | 46  | Creative Writing | 12  |           |
|               | TOTAL            | 250 | TOTAL            | 23  |           |
| **2013-2014** | English          | 180 | English          | 12  | 236       |
|               | English Teaching | 39  | Creative Writing | 5   |           |
|               | TOTAL            | 219 | TOTAL            | 17  |           |
| **2012-2013** | English          | 237 | English          | 21  | 302       |
|               | English Teaching | 35  | Creative Writing | 9   |           |
|               | TOTAL            | 272 | TOTAL            | 30  |           |
| **2011-2012** | English          | 262 | English          | 16  | 322       |
|               | English Teaching | 37  | Creative Writing | 7   |           |
|               | TOTAL            | 299 | TOTAL            | 23  |           |

## Student Enrollment (English major)

| | **Undergraduate** | | **Graduate** | | **TOTAL** |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **2014-2015** | English          | 939  | English          | 49 | 1156 |
|               | English Teaching | 136  | Creative Writing | 32 |      |
|               | TOTAL            | 1075 | TOTAL            | 81 |      | 
| **2013-2014** | English          | 910  | English          | 43 | 1144 |
|               | English Teaching | 163  | Creative Writing | 28 |      |
|               | TOTAL            | 1073 | TOTAL            | 71 |      |
| **2012-2013** | English          | 1122 | English          | 51 | 1395 |
|               | English Teaching | 199  | Creative Writing | 23 |      |
|               | TOTAL            | 1321 | TOTAL            | 74 |      |
| **2011-2012** | English          | 1234 | English          | 48 | 1517 |
|               | English Teaching | 212  | Creative Writing | 23 |      |
|               | TOTAL            | 1446 | TOTAL            | 71 |      |

## Courses Taught (English major)

(individual courses offered, this does not reflect multiple sections of each individual course)

| | **Winter** | **Spring** | **Summer** | **Fall** | **TOTAL** |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **2015** | no data (avg. 88) | 27 | 32 | 101 | 248 |
| **2014** | 89 | 33 | no data (avg. 26) | 100 | 248 |
| **2013** | 91 | 37 | 23 | 102 | 253 |
| **2012** | 85 | 33 | 22 | 97 | 237 |

Of these courses in the English major, those specific to folklore include:

- ENGL 391 (Intro to Folklore)
- ENGL 392 (American Folklore)
- ENGL 356 (Myth, Legend, Folktale)
- ENGL 495 (Women's Folklore, Women's Culture)
- ENGL 495 (Folklore in Literature)

## Faculty (English Department)

- 59 full-time (all PhD's)
- 67 adjunct (5 PhD's)

## Research Interests

The English Department at BYU currently includes three full-time faculty (all three PhD's) specializing in folklore. Their research interests include American folklore, Mormon folklore, fairy-tale studies, women's folklore, and folklore in literature.

## Related Departments/<wbr>Disciplines/<wbr>Programs/<wbr>Subject Areas

The folklore collection provides background and context to inform and enrich the interests many departments and programs, including:

- Department of Anthropology
- Department of Communication
- Department of Comparative Arts &amp; Letters
- Department of English
- Department of Fine Art
- Department of History
- Department of Linguistics and English Language
- Department of Psychology
- Department of Theater and Media Arts

And because folklore has cross-disciplinary implications, this collections also offers support for research and teaching in other Western European language and literature departments (e.g., French, Italian, Spanish and Portuguese, German) as well as area studies such as African Studies.

## Subject Librarian Annual Collection Development Reports

### 2015

**Electronic Resources.** Of the many electronic resources added during 2015 in my subject areas, those pertaining to folklore included:

- _Sunday Times Digital Archive_ (1822-2006). Thoughtful analysis and commentary on the week's news and society at large (since 1822). "Murder, theatre, sport and politics, all collide in these pages in an abundance of glorious narrative detail" (I wish I'd been the one to write that).
- _Crime, Punishment, and Popular Culture_ (1790-1920). Broad history of crime in the long 19th century derived from French, German, Spanish, Australian, British and U.S. sources. The collection includes trial transcripts, court proceedings, police and forensic documents, photographs, true crime literature and detective novels, and newspaper accounts. (I'm also using "copy" here, but without the quotes.)

### 2014

**Electronic Resources.** Of the many electronic resources added during 2014 in my subject areas, those pertaining to folklore included:

- _Dictionary of American Regional English_ (DARE). Focuses on the regional aspects of American English, documenting words, phrases, and pronunciations.
- _Partridge Slang Online_. The first authoritative slang dictionary online. Acknowledged to be the most authoritative and comprehensive dictionary of slang in the world. Contains over 60,000 entries, dating back to the 1600's.
- _Punch Magazine Archive_. The complete 1841 to 1992 run of the world's most celebrated magazine of humor and satire.
- _Travel Writing, Spectacle and World History_. Hundreds of accounts by women of their travels across the globe from the early 19th century to the late 20th century.
- _Jewish Life in America_. From the American Jewish Historical Society in New York, the history of Jewish communities in America from their first arrival in New York in 1654 up through 1954.
- _First World War: Visual Perspectives and Narratives_. Primary source material from the Imperial War Museum in London. Main themes include the role of women during the war, the Home Front and international perspectives.
- _American History from the Gilder Lehrman Collection_. American History from the earliest settlers in 1493 to the mid-twentieth century 1945.
- _American Consumer Culture: Market Research and American Business, 1935-1965._ A look at the American consumer boom of the mid-20th century through access to the complete market research reports of Ernest Dichter.
- _Popular Culture in Britain and America, 1950-1975._ Music, politics, fashion, and youth culture during the period 1950 to 1975. Includes printed and manuscript sources, visual material, ephemera and video clips.
- Gale's _Archives Unbound_: the "Rastafari Collection" and "Mountain People: Life and Culture in Appalachia."

### 2013

**New Serials Subscriptions.** During 2013, I used serials cancellation money I'd amassed / earned to start subscriptions for requested journals we lacked (and / or to purchase needed back issues, restart cancelled subscriptions). Those that might support folklore included:

- _Religion in the Age of Enlightenment_

**Electronic Resources.** Of the many electronic resources added during 2013 in my subject areas, those pertaining to folklore included:

- _Illustrated London News_ (1842-2003). The full-run of the world's first fully illustrated weekly newspaper.
- _International Women's Periodicals, 1786-1933: Social and Political Issues_.
- _19_<sup>th</sup> _Century U.K. Periodicals Series 1: New Readerships: Women's, Children's, Humor and Leisure/Sport_.
- _Women, War &amp; Society 1914-1918_. A digital archive collected from the "Women at Work Collection" at the Imperial War Museum.
- _Queen Victoria Journals (1832-1901)_. For the first time, the entire 141 volumes (approx. 33,000 pages) from her first journal entry at 13-years old to her death in 1901.
- _World War I Trench Journals._ Primary source periodicals written by and for servicemen and women of all nations during the First World War.
- _First World War: Propaganda and Recruitment_. Posters, photographs, leaflets, etc.
- _John Johnson Collection of Printed Ephemera_. Items selected from the John Johnson Collection of Printed Ephemera, offering unique insights into the changing nature of everyday life in Britain in the 18<sup>th</sup>, 19<sup>th</sup>, and early 20th centuries.

### 2012

**Electronic Resources.** Of the many electronic resources added during 2012 in my subject areas, those pertaining to folklore included:

- _London Low Life_
- _World War I Personal Histories_
- _19_<sup>th</sup> _Century British Library Newspapers part II_
- _19_<sup>th</sup> _Century UK Periodicals part I_
- _Feminism in Cuba, 1898-1958_
- _German Folklore and Popular Culture_
- _Nineteenth Century Collections Online_ (NCCO)
- _Defining Gender, 1450-1910_
- _Eighteenth-Century Journals Portal, Section V:_ _The Lady's Magazine_ _and Other Titles, 1712-1835_
- _The Lily: A Temperance and Feminist Newspaper, 1849-1856_ (co-sponsored w/ C. Lamb)
- _Victorian Popular Culture IV: Moving Pictures, Optical Entertainments and the Advent of Cinema_ (co-sponsored with Julie Williamsen)
- Gale's _Archives Unbound_:
- "Papers of Amiri Bakara, Poet Laureate of the Black Power Movement"
- "Psychological Warfare and Propaganda in World War II"
- Gale _Virtual Reference Library_:
- "The Literature of Propaganda"
