---
fund: 34215
fund-name: Art and Art History
custom-fund: Funds 34215, 34216, 34219, 34XXX
custom-fund-name: Visual Arts Collections:<br/>Art and Art History<br/>Design, Architecture, Animation<br/>Photography<br/>Costume, and Fashion
file-name: 34215 Visual Arts.docx
tags:
  - Christiane Ramsey
---

## Overview

The Harold B. Lee Library's visual arts collections support the teaching and research needs of BYU's Department of Art, Department of Design, Art History, and Interdisciplinary Humanities. Primary patrons include undergraduate and graduate students and faculty in art and architecture history, studio art, design, and photography, in addition to various interdisciplinary art-related programs and courses on campus. The collections support graduate studies in the areas of art history, art education, and studio art, as well as research support for the curatorial staff of the Museum of Art.

## Degree Programs and Collecting Levels

The following programs represent the primary audiences for the HBLL's collection of visual arts materials. Collecting levels for all areas below are "Teaching Level", providing support for advanced undergraduate and master's degree programs, as well as independent study.

### College of Fine Arts

#### Department of Art

- Art&mdash;B.A., B.F.A.
- Studio Arts&mdash;**M.F.A.**
- Art Education&mdash;B.A., **M.A.**
- Art Education Licensure for B.A. and B.F.A. students

#### Department of Design

- Animation&mdash;[B.F.A.](http://registrar.byu.edu/advisement/pdf/15/488040.pdf)
- Graphic Design&mdash;B.A., B.F.A.
- Illustration&mdash;B.A., B.F.A.
- Photography&mdash;B.A., B.F.A.
- Design&mdash;Minor
- Advertising Design&mdash;Minor

### College of Humanities

#### Department of Comparative Arts & Letters
- Art History and Curatorial Studies&mdash;B.A., B.F.A., **M.A.**

In addition to the programs and degrees outlined above, visual arts materials are increasingly important to researchers in Comparative Studies, American Studies, French & Italian Studies, Germanic and Scandinavian Studies, Asian Studies, Latin American and Iberian Studies, African and Middle Eastern Studies, Archaeology, Medieval and Renaissance Studies, Classics, Women's Studies, and Interdisciplinary Humanities.

## Departments/<wbr/>Disciplines/<wbr/>Programs/<wbr/>Subject Areas

Primary areas of study include:

### Art History
World civilization, Ancient Greek and Near Eastern, Roman, Early Christian and Byzantine, Medieval, Renaissance (Northern and Italian), Baroque (Northern and Italian); American, Asian, Islamic, and Latin American; 18<sup>th</sup>&ndash;21<sup>st</sup> centuries art and architecture; contemporary art, history of photography, Northern and Southern Mesoamerican art; foreign language readings for art historians; women's studies in art; museum and curatorial studies, art history business.

### Department of Art

Art education, ceramics, figure studies, new genre, painting/drawing, photography, printmaking, sculpture. Special programs include:

- Visiting Artists Series&mdash;Host local, national, and international level artists, curators, and critics for lectures and individual studio visits with student artists.
- Museum of Art Internships
- Study Abroad Programs&mdash;annual study abroad program, field trips to New York City and Los Angeles, and international internships. Recent programs included travel to Germany, Italy, France, England, Spain, Nepal, India, Tonga, New Zealand, and Australia.

### Department of Design
Animation, Art Direction, Branding, Character Design, Concept Design, Game Development, Graphic Design, Illustration, Interaction Design, Motion Design, Photography, Fine Art Photography, Commercial Photography, Videography, Visual Development, Data Visualization.

## Formats Collected

### Books

Although electronic titles are generally preferred by the Library, print is the preferred medium by faculty and students for all visual arts materials. Print materials include academic publications, inventory catalogs, art surveys, exhibition catalogs from museums worldwide, artist's monographs (trade and university presses), institutional publications about art, artists, or artistic movements. Additional areas include new trends, iconographical studies, thematic concepts, and artistic genres. Catalogues raisonnés (complete works of an artist) and museum catalogs (permanent collections) are also collected.

### Reference materials

These include bibliographies, biographical sources, directories of museums, indexes to art reproductions, and guides to identification of art works; standard reference sources for iconography, architecture, sculpture, museums, etc. Print is acquired when online version is not available, stable, or adequate.

### Audiovisual materials

Documentaries about art and artists are collected, DVD format preferred.

### Periodicals
Electronic format is preferred; print subscriptions are initiated or continued when online is not available or adequate, and depending on availability and preference by faculty and students. Aside from the perspective of research on specific topics, browsing is an extremely important factor for design and art students who constantly look for inspiration and awareness of current trends in the visual arts.

## Languages collected

Materials collected are primarily in English, but also include Italian, French, German, Dutch, Spanish, and Portuguese reflecting seminal scholarship in subjects of interest. Limited acquisitions are made in additional languages, unless the publication has a unique value to the collection.

## Chronological and Geographical Focus

Current material is primarily emphasized, with earlier or out-of-print materials collected to replace damaged or lost copies of significant works; in response to faculty or students requests; or to fill in a gap in existing collections. The collections are international in scope, with all geographical areas included.

## Approval plans established for art materials

- **Worldwide Art Books**
    - Current agreement is their Plan 7, which includes most important exhibition catalogs from museums worldwide, based on subjects of interest listed in our profile. Architecture, applied arts, and non-western art will be supplied at the Plan 8 level (more selective.) Current annual cap (July 2015&ndash;July 2016) is $17,000.
- **Amalivre**
    - Plan provides a very small selection of significant works covering all periods in art. Current annual cap since January 2016 is $2,000.
- **Karno Books**
    - Coverage includes major art and design materials published in Latin America, with emphasis in materials from Brazil, Mexico, and Argentina and selective materials for the rest of South America, Guatemala (Mesoamerican only), Cuba, Central America, and Caribbean-Spanish speaking. Current annual cap since January 2016 is $8,000.


## Annual Collection Reports

### 2015

- **Notable acquisitions (collections, journals, databases)**
    - In addition to the budgeted acquisition of books received through approval plans and firm orders, there weren't any significant donated collections this past year. There were no cancellations of journals or databases.

- **New electronic databases proposed, approved, and installed**
    - _Drama Online_
    - _Women's Magazines Archive_
    - _Women Wear Daily_
    - _Archive of Art and Architecture_
- **New reference materials ordered for the Humanities Reference collection**
    - Ordered 27 new titles for the Humanities Reference collection including:
        - Greenwood Encyclopedia of Clothing Through World History
        - Atlas of the Baroque World
        - How To Write About Contemporary Art
        - Oxford Handbook of Roman Sculpture
        - Starting Your Career as a Graphic Designer
        - Painting: Critical and Primary Sources
        - Textiles: Critical and Primary Sources
        - Oxford Handbook of Religion and the Arts, etc.
- **Funding adjustments**
    - The area of costume and fashion was added to my collecting responsibilities (September 2015) and a new budget fund was created for those areas, including set design.
-  **Program changes, new courses**
    - Advertising Design is now a minor offered by the Design Dept.
    - New areas of study in that department now include:
        - Data Visualization
        - User Experience
        - Interaction Design
        - Moving Image
        - Video art
-  **Liaison actions pertaining to collections**
    - Continued to work with faculty and students on additional orders and recommendations for acquisitions.
-  **Assessments**
    - Prepared the Library Section of the NASAD Accreditation report for the Department of Art and Department of Design.
