---
fund: 34285
fund-name: Nursing
file-name: 34285 Nursing.docx
tags:
 - Betsy Hopkins
---

The library seeks to support teaching and research in Nursing at the Teaching level.

## About the Department

The undergraduate program teaches students to care for patients of different ages, in a variety of settings, and across a spectrum of needs. Classes include nursing specialties such as public health, medical-surgical, acute care, psychiatric, and labor and delivery. Research assignments are integrated throughout the six semester program, starting in the second semester and culminating in the capstone research paper.

The graduate program prepares students for professional practice as Family Nurse Practitioners, who serve people of every age in different clinical settings. Support for this program requires selected professional-level clinical information. In addition, these students complete a thesis or evidence-based scholarly paper.

## Formats

Overwhelmingly, Nursing faculty and students use online databases and journal articles. Online journal article access is available through publisher packages, database subscriptions, and individual title management. Books are purchased mainly via the YBP approval plan. Twice a year faculty are provided with a list of new books from YBP slips and queried for firm order requests; very few firm order purchases are made without faculty request. Circulation rates are quite low for monographs. E-books are purchased where possible, to increase accessibility and use.

## Nursing Learning Center

In addition to the nursing collection in the HBLL building, the library supports a small collection of books and media in the Nursing Learning Center. Most of these items circulate like reserve items, with varying checkout periods depending on the item. The library purchases NLC items as requested, including videos and some kits.

## Degree Programs and Collecting Levels

- Bachelor of Science, Nursing: Teaching Level
- Master of Science, Family Nurse Practitioner: Teaching Level

## Research Interests

- Nursing education
- Simulation
- Care of the veteran population
- End of life care
- Critical care
- Public health
- Quality, leadership, and administration
- Cultural and international nursing
- Orthopedics and sports medicine
- Compassion fatigue
- Women's health
- Genetic counseling
- Breast cancer prevention
- Immunizations
- Childhood obesity
- Ethics
- PTSD
- Trauma
- Forensics
- Families of children with disabilities
- Vitamin D

## Subject Librarian Annual Collection Reports

### 2015

- **Incidence and Prevalence Database.** Cancelled due to low use over 1-year period.
- **Nursing Education in Video**. Purchased upgrade package (videos 2012-2020) for one-time $15,000 ($2,500 from consolidated funds).
- **Lippincott, Williams, and Wilkins Journals**. Purchased increased concurrent users for 12 titles, based on high turnaways, with help from Mike Goates and Meg Frost.
- **NLC Browse Page**. Coordinated work on the NLC browse page, which will resemble the [Popular Reading browse page](http://lib.byu.edu/books/popular-reading/). For the first time nursing patrons will be able to search within the NLC collection. Images will improve the patron experience.
