---
fund: 34192
fund-name: Women's Studies
file-name: 34192 Womens Studies.docx
tags:
 - Elizabeth Smart
---

## Overview

The Women's Studies program at BYU is co-sponsored by the College of Humanities and the College of Family, Home, and Social Sciences. This interdisciplinary program studies women's position and history in a global context. Learning outcomes for the program are found here: from https://learningoutcomes.byu.edu/Courses/program-courses/731001/Women%2527s+Studies+MIN/1013

### Women and Society

1. Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge of the ways different institutions (such as religion, education, media, family, government and law), issues (gender-based violence, health, representation in the media, the workplace), and factors (race, ethnicity, class, sexuality, ability) intersect with and affect women's lives.

### Women's Contributions

2. Students will be able to demonstrate knowledge of the worldwide contributions of women (individually and collectively) to history, culture, politics, health, sciences, religions, family, etc.

### Effective Communication and Analysis

3. Students will be able to read, write, and think analytically. They will be able to conduct research using primary and secondary sources and communicate that research effectively in oral, written, and multi-media presentations.

There are 61 full-time faculty affiliated with the program, representing departments and colleges across campus, including English, History, Nursing, Humanities, Social Work, Law, Ancient Scripture, Church History, Statistics, and Health Science.

Areas of interest for Women's Studies faculty research includes diverse topics such as: women's spirituality and conversion narratives, women's reform literature, gender and the media, gender in teacher education, gender history, women's mental health, gender relations, Early Modern Spanish and Portuguese women authors, and the representation of women on stage and screen.

Courses in Women's Studies range from an introductory course to Mormon Women's History, Feminism and Masculinities, Women and the Book, and Women, Peace, and Transitional Justice.­­

Library collections support the diverse research interests of affiliated faculty as well as advanced undergraduate research for students completing the capstone requirement for the women's studies minor. The library seeks to support research and teaching through targeted acquisitions, both of new and retrospective materials. Relevance and potential use for teaching and/or research are paramount, and a further factor is the quality of scholarship and presentation. For books, both print and digital formats are collected; where there is a choice, the default is for an e-book.

## Degree Programs and Collecting Levels

- Minor in Women's Studies: Teaching Level

## Departments/<wbr>Disciplines/<wbr>Programs/<wbr>Subject Areas

The Women's Studies collections also support the interest of the following departments and programs:

- Church History
- Comparative Arts &amp; Letters
- English
- French &amp; Italian
- History
- Psychology
- Public Health &amp; Health Sciences
- Social Work
- Spanish &amp; Portuguese
- Theatre &amp; Media Arts

## Annual Collection Reports

### 2016

1. **Liaison actions pertaining to collections**

1. Women's Studies librarians collaborated to teach Women's Studies 222 (Introduction to Women's Studies) for a closer look at program and collection needs.
2. Cooperation on developing collections pertaining to global women's issues.

**2015**

- **Notable acquisitions (collections, journals, databases)**
    - Women's Magazine Archive (ProQuest)
    - The Women's Wear Daily Archive (ProQuest)

- **Liaison actions pertaining to collections**
    - Connie Lamb participates as a member of the Women's Studies Executive Committee, providing consultation on collection needs for teaching and research.
