---
fund: 34232
fund-name: Film and Animation
file-name: 34232 Film and Animation.docx
tags:
 - Elizabeth Smart
---

## Overview

The Harold B. Lee Library's film and animation collection support the teaching and research needs of BYU's Department of Theatre & Media Arts. Patrons include undergraduate and graduate students and faculty in media arts critical studies, non-fiction production, fiction production, and media arts education. Media Arts students learn media arts history, concepts, and processes; ethics, collaboration, and spirituality; how to develop analytical, conceptual, and technical skills in a variety of media; how to integrate their knowledge of media arts history and processes with personal approaches to media analysis and creation.

There are 11 full-time and 7 adjunct media arts faculty. Research interests of program faculty focus on film history, media arts critical studies, new media, Monty Python, youth and media, creativity, media education, and spectatorship and spirituality.

Courses in media arts focus on analytical studies in media forms, genres, and messages; media arts and animation history; narrative analysis and production; screenwriting; and media arts theory. In recent years, media collections have expanded in support of advanced writing courses and capstones.

The library seeks to support research and teaching through targeted acquisitions, both of new and retrospective materials in appropriate formats (print, DVD/Blu-ray, streaming video). Relevance and potential use for teaching and/or research are paramount, and a further factor is the quality of scholarship and presentation. For books, both print and digital formats are collected; where there is a choice, the default is for an e-book.

## Degree Programs and Collecting Levels

- Bachelor of Arts in Media Arts Studies (Critical Studies, Non-Fiction Production, Fiction Production): Teaching Level
- Master of Arts in Media Arts Education: Teaching Level
- Bachelor of Fine Arts in Animation: Teaching Level

## Departments/<wbr>Disciplines/<wbr>Programs/<wbr>Subject Areas

The film and animation collections also support the interest of the following departments and programs:

- BYU Center for Animation (operating under the direction of the College of Engineering and Technology, the College of Fine Arts and Communications, and the College of Physical and Mathematical Sciences).
- Department of Comparative Arts and Letters
- International Cinema Studies
- School of Communications
- Women's Studies program

## Annual Collection Reports

### 2016

- **Liaison actions pertaining to collections**
    - Consultation in expanding collection of films for curricular use, including international films and early horror films
    - Documentary Film Series programming

### 2015

- **Notable acquisitions (collections, journals, databases)**
    - Kanopy Streaming Video
- **Program changes, new courses**
    - New minor of International Cinema Studies established in the College of Humanities.
- **Liaison actions pertaining to collections**
    - Documentary Film Series programming
    - Liaison responsibilities for film collection assigned to Humanities & Media Librarian. Animation liaison and collection responsibilities shared by the Visual Arts Librarian, the Physical & Mathematical Sciences Librarian, and the Humanities & Media Librarian.

### 2014

- **Liaison actions pertaining to collections**
    - The HBLL film collection moved to open stacks for easier browsing and accessibility
