---
fund: 34281
fund-name: Health Science
file-name: 34281 Health Science.docx
tags:
 - Mike Goates
---

## Overview

The library seeks to develop collections to support teaching and research in the Department of Health Science. Information resources in the health sciences are collected at the teaching level to support undergraduate and graduate program coursework.

## Degree Programs and Collecting Level

- Bachelor of Science, Public Health—Environmental &amp; Occupational Health: Teaching Level
- Bachelor of Science, Public Health—Epidemiology: Teaching Level
- Bachelor of Science, Public Health—Health Promotion Emphasis: Teaching Level
- Bachelor of Science, Public Health—Health Science: Teaching Level
- Minor, Gerontology: Teaching Level
- Minor, Health Education: Teaching Level
- Master of Public Health: Teaching Level

## Research Interests

- Biostatistics
- Children's health
- Disease prevention and control
- Emergency response
- Environmental health
- Epidemiology
- First aid
- Gerontology
- Global health
- Health determinants
- Health education
- Health promotion
- Occupational health
- Public health
- Women's health

## Departments/<wbr>Disciplines/<wbr>Programs

The health sciences collections reflect the interests of the following departments and programs:

- Health Science
- Exercise Sciences
- Nursing

## Formats Collected

### Periodicals

Electronic format is highly preferred for most journals and other periodicals. A substantial number of journal titles are acquired through large package deals, though others are maintained through individual subscriptions. In the event that a relevant periodical title is not available in electronic format, a print subscription may be acquired after careful consideration of likely faculty and student use.

### Monographs

When available, electronic books are generally preferred over print books. However, many relevant book titles in the health sciences are only available in print format. In these instances, the library will continue to acquire these materials in print.

### Reference materials

When available, dictionaries, encyclopedias, guidebooks, and other reference materials are preferred in electronic format, though these items will also be acquired in print, if necessary.

### Audiovisual materials

Audiovisual materials will be acquired as requested by faculty to support learning objectives for specific courses in the health sciences. These materials will be located in the library's Media Center and will be available for student and faculty checkout. When requested by faculty for class use, streaming licenses can be purchased for videos, if available and reasonably priced.

## Annual Collection Reports

### 2015

- **Notable acquisitions (collections, journals, databases)**
    - *BIOSIS Citation Index* – The library upgraded from the BIOSIS Previews database to the BIOSIS Citation Index. This upgraded resource provides expanded citation information for one of the largest biological sciences databases in the world. As part of this upgrade, the library also purchased backfiles to the database from 1955 to 1980, providing access to all available records for the past 60 years.
    - *HBLL Locked Case Reintegration* – All health sciences collections in the library's locked case were evaluated. These items were either relocated to the general stacks, sent to auxiliary storage, or withdrawn from the library's holdings.
    - *Science and Maps Reference Collection Weeding Project* – All health sciences print materials in the library's Science and Maps Reference Collection were evaluated to maintain an up-to-date and useful reference collection. Outdated materials were withdrawn from the library. Other materials with research value but that were not likely to be used as reference sources were returned to the circulating stacks or to auxiliary storage.
    - *Demand Driven and Evidence Based Acquisitions* – A substantial number of monographs in the health sciences were added to the library's collections through demand driven and evidenced based acquisition models. The vast majority of monographs in the health sciences were purchased through YBP. Many of the ebooks on this approval profile were automatically added as demand driven acquisitions (DDA). When reviewing YBP slips, all selected ebooks were added as DDA, when available. Additionally, evidenced based purchasing plans were used to acquire ebooks in the health sciences with Wiley and Elsevier.
