---
fund: 34271
fund-name: Physiology and Developmental Biology
file-name: 34271 Physiology and Developmental Biology.docx
tags:
 - Meg Frost
---
## Overview

This policy covers the Physiology and Developmental Biology Department within the College Life Sciences. The Harold B. Lee Library supports the curricular and research needs of the department through targeted acquisitions of books, periodicals and database subscriptions.

## Department Description

Physiology is the study of the functions of the body systems. Developmental biology is the study of how specific genes govern differentiation of cells, tissues, and organs with unique structure and functions. The related area of biophysics uses the methods of physics, chemistry, mathematics and biology to investigate the physical basis of life. All of these disciplines require knowledge of mathematics, chemistry, physics, and cellular biology. Students can receive one of two BS degrees, two MS degrees, and two PhD degrees. There were 201\* BS, 5 MS degrees, and 2 PhDs awarded in 2015. There are 21 full-time faculty in the department.

## Degree Programs and Collecting Levels

### Collection levels: _Selective, Curriculum support, Research_

- BS Biophysics: _Curriculum support_
- BS Physiology and Developmental Biology: _Research_
- BS Neuroscience\*: _Research_
- MS Physiology and Developmental Biology: _Research_
- MS Neuroscience: _Research_
- PhD Physiology and Developmental Biology: _Research_
- PhD Neuroscience: _Research_

\*(85 BS Neuroscience majors are actually part of the Neuroscience Center)

## Research Interests

Research interest in this department are difficult to summarize as most faculty are working on unique study areas. The following research topics represent work from each of the faculty in the department:

- reward/addiction pathways
- cancer detection, metastasis and drug development
- besity and metabolism
- nervous system development
- degenerative diseases
- developmental disorders
- exercise physiology
- learning and memory
- steoarthritis
- hypertension
- skeletal muscle dysfunction
- prenatal environment
- sexual differentiation and the environment
- neuronal cells and botulinum toxin
- trophoblast cells and placental growth
- immune system and adrenal glands
- ion channels in the hippocampus
- telomere length
- lymphocytes and lipids

## Departments/<wbr>Disciplines/<wbr>Programs/<wbr>Subject Areas

The exercise sciences collections reflect the interests of the Exercise Sciences department but, because many of the biomedical sciences overlap, the collections are also used by the departments of:

- Health Science
- Nutrition, Dietetics and Food Science
- Microbiology and Molecular Biology
- [Chemistry &amp; Biochemistry](http://www.chem.byu.edu/)
- Biology
- Exercise Sciences
- The Neuroscience Center

## Classed Analysis

| **LC Classification** | **Subject** | **Collecting Level** |
| --- | --- | --- |
| QH 604 | Cell regulation and control | _Curriculum support_ |
| QM | HUMAN ANATOMY | _Curriculum support_ |
| QP | PHYSIOLOGY | _Research_ |
| RC 321-580 | Neurosciences | _Research_ |
| RC 321-580 | Biological psychiatry, Neuropsychiatry, Congenital disorders | _Selective_ |

## Subject and Format

### Type

- Original research, abstracts, and reference works: _Research_
- Biographies, histories and popular treatments: _Selective_
- Textbooks, and course materials: _Curriculum support_
- Other types: _generally, not collected_

### Format Priority

1. Serials: _Research_
2. Electronic sources, DDA: _Research_
3. Electronic sources, purchased: _Selective_
4. Print Monographs: _Selective_
5. Audiovisual materials: _Selective_
6. Microforms and manuscripts: _generally, not collected_

### Dates

Because new research is constantly making older material obsolete in this field, monographs are generally purchased within the year of publication. Materials older than one year are collected very selectively. Back files of periodicals are occasionally purchased.

### Languages

Unless requested, materials are collected in English. General academic, advanced academic and popular level materials are collected in all call numbers. Professional level materials are collected selectively.

### Geographic Focus

There are no general geographic criteria for most acquisitions, however some materials such as biographies and histories found in the call number R are more likely to be acquired if they are local.

### Gifts

Community members who offer gifts are generally referred to our partners, like BetterWorldBooks. Faculty gifts are typically reviewed more carefully. This encounter provides a liaison opportunity for the subject librarian.

### Cooperative Resources

Various consortia arrangements on a library wide scale have been entered into to ensure full text availability of periodicals. These include some exercise science periodicals and other electronic materials.

## Subject Librarian Annual Collection Reports

### 2015

- I reviewed Gobi every two weeks and made bi-monthly orders for PD Bio. I chose this time scale because I wanted to acquire books in my disciplines in a timely manner, but because many of the titles become available as eBooks after they are released as print materials, I found it valuable to wait for a month or two before ordering newly published print materials.
- I continued my collection of various test prep manuals such as the DAT and LSAT which are now kept for in-library use at the Science Reference Desk. These manuals have already received a great deal of interest.
- I evaluated 13 journals for possible subscription or cancelation. Three of these journals were recommendations from faculty and the rest were evaluated due to price increases or high numbers of turn-aways. I collaborated with Rebecca Boughan, Leila Kramer, and Kimberly Hao to investigate usage and pricing.
- I took time to become familiar with the top journals in my subject areas. I created a spreadsheet that provided information indices for all of the journals with in my subject areas that have an impact factor of 10 or higher. I did this because I felt like there was a gap in my knowledge when speaking about publications with some of my faculty.
- I assisted a student in acquiring a textbook for a student who need accessibility services.
