---
fund: 34185
fund-name: Accounting
file-name: 34185 Accounting.docx
tags:
 - Leticia Camacho
---

## Overview

The Harold. B. Lee Library supports accounting teaching and research through the master’s degree teaching level (level 3). Materials are provided for all areas and specializations in accounting. The library resources and services support the Brigham Young University Marriott School of Accounting mission to educate students with accounting skills leadership abilities, and ethical values that will enhance the students’ opportunities for success in worldwide organizations.

There are 29 full-time faculty, 4 adjunct faculty, 3 administrative staff, 1 part-time administrative staff. BYU offers both a four-year Bachelor’s degree in Accounting, as well as a five-year integrated program which combines both the Bachelor’s and Master’s programs. There are two stems for the MAcc program: Professional (professional services for firms and corporations such as advisory services, assurance services, etc.). And Tax (corporate and individual taxation). The BYU accounting program also offers an Accounting Information Systems (AIS) track, two PhD Prep tracks (Professional and tax), and JD/MAcc joint degree (Juris Doctor and Master of Accountancy).

Some of the areas of Accounting teaching and research interest in recent decades have included topics related to general business, ethics, finance, operations management, organizational behavior, management accounting, public accounting, not-for-profit accounting, marketing management, strategic management, money and banking, financial accounting, fair value, international accounting, fraud prevention &amp; detection, data communication &amp; security, database analysis &amp; design, management consulting, management communication, auditing, managerial accounting, accounting information systems, tax research, corporate taxation, current tax policy, advanced statistics, and econometrics, accounting methods, income taxes, tax advisement, financial counseling, financial literacy...

The library seeks to support research and teaching through targeted acquisitions, both of new and retrospective materials. Relevance and potential use for teaching and/or research are paramount, and a further factor is the quality of scholarship and presentation. For books, both print and digital formats are collected; where there is a choice, the default is for an e-book. Demand-driven acquisition is used where possible, since it saves money and guarantees usage.

## Degree Programs and Collecting Level

- BS Accountancy: Teaching Level
- MAcc: Teaching Level
- JD/MAcc: Teaching Level

## Departments/<wbr>Disciplines/<wbr>Programs/<wbr>Subject Areas

The Accounting collections also reflect the interests of the following departments and programs:

- Business Management
- Economics (Agricultural, managerial)
- Public Management
- Information Systems
- Government Documents
- Law
- Computer Science
- Mathematics
- Statistics

## Subject Librarian Annual Collection Reports

- **Notable acquisitions (collections, journals, databases)**

    - RIA Checkpoint Tax Service. Includes Checkpoint Web, AICPA, WGL International Accounting Standards, WGL GAAP and IFRS and WGL GASB.
    - CCH Internet (Omnitax)
    - BNA Tax Management Library
    - Accounting &amp; Tax (ProQuest)
    - Audit Analytics

- **Funding adjustments**
    - There has been a significant reduction to the monograph fund in order to support database online subscriptions.

- **Liaison actions pertaining to collections**
    - Consultation with School of Accountancy department chair on resources needed to support the program

- **Funding adjustments**
    - None

- **Liaison actions pertaining to collections**
    - Print reference collection assessment
    - Print reference collection send to stacks
    - Cancel print serials subscription that are available electronically
