---
fund: 34184
fund-name: Information Systems
file-name: 34184 Information Systems.docx
tags:
 - Leticia Camacho
---

## Overview

The library supports Information Systems (IS) in all areas and specializations. It is the goal of the Harold. B. Lee Library to support teaching and research though the Ph.D. degree level in Information Systems.

The Information Systems program allows graduates to embrace opportunities in business analysis, consulting, reengineering, IS design, IS management, programming, instruction, and administration. The IS curriculum advances understanding of technologies in the design and development of information systems. Students gain technical expertise in systems analysis; systems design and implementation; database development and management; programming; telecommunications and web application development.

IS consists of 15 full time faculty, 1 administrative staff, 1 staff, and 5 adjunct faculty. The library generally seeks to support teaching and research in Information Systems at the Research level (level 4). Some of the areas of Information Systems teaching and research interest in recent decades have included topics related to systems and business Analysis, database Systems, business programming, processes and controls, data communications, systems design &amp; implementation, enterprise application development, computer and automation programming, user experience design, technical leadership, data mining for business intelligence, information management security, digital forensics for organizations, spreadsheet automation and modeling, project management, marketing analytics, data communications &amp; securities, and database analysis design.

The library seeks to support research and teaching through targeted acquisitions, both of new and retrospective materials. Relevance and potential use for teaching and/or research are paramount, and a further factor is the quality of scholarship and presentation. For books, both print and digital formats are collected; where there is a choice, the default is for an e-book. Demand-driven acquisition is used where possible, since it saves money and guarantees usage.

## Degree Programs and Collecting Level

- BS in Information Systems: Research Level
- MISM in Information Systems Management: Research Level
- PhD Prep Track: Research Level

## Departments/<wbr>Disciplines/<wbr>Programs/<wbr>Subject Areas

The Information Systems collections also reflect the interests of the following departments and programs:

- Accounting
- Business Management
- Computer Science
- Statistics
- Math

## Subject Librarian Annual Collection Reports

- **Notable acquisitions (collections, journals, databases)**
    - Lynda.com kiosk (2 licenses); Encyclopedia of Information Science and Technology by Khosrow-Pour, Mehdi (Online); The Blackwell encyclopedia of management VII Information Systems by Cary L Cooper (Online).

- **Funding adjustments**
    - No reduction or added funding

- **Liaison actions pertaining to collections**
    - Consultation on library presentation for the PhD track students
    - Annual Meeting with Department Chair

- **Funding adjustments**
    - None

- **Liaison actions pertaining to collections**
    - Added resources and new pages to the http://guides.lib.byu.edu/bsisys ( IS Theories, Analyst &amp; Ratios and Behavioral Databases)
    - Purchased materials related to Information Systems Topics.
