---
fund: 34110
fund-name: Psychology
file-name: 34110 Psychology.docx
tags:
 - Emily Darowski
---

## Collecting Level

The library seeks to support teaching and research in psychology at the Research Level.

## Overview

The psychology collection supports teaching and research at the undergraduate and graduate levels. Its purpose is to provide theoretical, experimental, and applied information for students and faculty at all points in their education or career. Journals, as the primary mode of disseminating research in the psychology discipline, are a critical medium in the collection. Databases that allow students and faculty to find and understand psychology research are also given high priority. Books remain an important part of the collection as well, and are generally selected based on content value and connections to ongoing teaching a research emphases within the departments served. In most cases e-books are preferred to print books if possible.

## Degree Programs, Services and their Collecting Levels

### Psychology: *Research Level*

- BS in Psychology
- Minor in Psychology
- Minor in Psychology Teaching
- PhD in Psychology
  - Emphasis in Applied Social Psychology
  - Emphasis in Developmental Psychology
  - Emphasis in Cognitive and Behavioral Neurosciences
  - Emphasis in Health Psychology
- PhD in Clinical Psychology

### Instructional Psychology & Technology (IP&T): *Research Level*

- MS in IP&T
- PhD in IP&T

### Counseling Psychology & Special Education: *Research Level*

- BS in Special Education
  - Mild/Moderate Disabilities
  - Severe Disabilities
- MS in Special Education
- EdS in School Psychology
- PhD in Counseling Psychology

### Campus Services: *Research Level*

- Counseling and Psychological Services
- Comprehensive Clinic

## Research Interests

Research interests are wide and varied across the psychology departments at BYU. The following provides a summary, but should not be considered comprehensive analysis.

### Psychology Department

Research emphases in the psychology department center around the five major PhD programs: applied social psychology, developmental psychology, cognitive and behavioral neurosciences, health psychology, and clinical psychology. Many collaborations exist among faculty and students across these broad categories. Specific areas of research include autism, gender roles, spirituality, childhood development, marital relationships, traumatic brain injury, memory, stress management, personality, philosophy of psychology, etc.

### Counseling Psychology and Special Education Department

Research emphases include autism, ADHD, disabilities, individual and group psychotherapy, multicultural psychology, language and literacy, parent training, religiosity, qualitative research methods, school counseling, parent/teacher training, etc.

### Instructional Psychology & Technology Department

Research emphases include evaluation and assessment, technology-mediated teaching and learning, innovation and design thinking, agency in education, etc.

## Subject & Formats

### Scope

The library collects monographs and periodicals at a research level to support students and faculty.

### Type

Books that contain original research, reviews of research, and reference material are collected extensively. Subscriptions to online databases such as PsycINFO and PsycARTICLES provide extensive searching of indexed psychology literature. Subscriptions to journals, particularly online journals, provide access to full text research articles.

### Time

Materials published during the last 10 years are collected extensively. Materials published during the previous 20-30 years are collected very selectively. Materials published prior to 1950 are generally not collected unless they have historical value.

### Languages

English is the preferred language and is collected extensively. Other languages are generally excluded or collected very selectively based on unique content that has not been translated into English.

### Geographic Focus

No particular area of the world is favored, however most materials come from North America and Europe.

### Classed Analysis

| **LC Classification** | **Subject** | **Collecting Level** |
| --- | --- | --- |
| BF 1-990 | Psychology | Research |
| BF 38-64 | Philosophy | Research |
| BF 173-175.5 | Psychoanalysis | Research |
| BF 176-176.5 | Psychological Tests and Testing | Research |
| BF 180-198.7 | Experimental Psychology | Research |
| BF 203 | Gestalt Psychology | Research |
| BF 207-209 | Psychotropic Drugs and Other Substances | Research |
| BF 231-299 | Sensation, Aesthesiology | Research |
| BF 309-499 | Consciousness, Cognition (Learning, Attention, Comprehension, Memory, Imagination, Genius, Intelligence, Thought and Thinking, Psycholinguistics, Mental Fatigue) | Research |
| BF 501-505 | Motivation | Research |
| BF 511-593 | Affection, Feeling, Emotion | Research |
| BF 608-635 | Will, Volition, Choice, Control | Research |
| BF 636-637 | Applied Psychology | Research |
| BF 638-648 | New Thought, Menticulture, etc. | Research |
| BF 660-685 | Comparative Psychology, Animal and Human Psychology | Research |
| BF 692-692.5 | Psychology of Sex, Sexual Behavior | Research |
| BF 697-697.5 | Differential Psychology, Individuality, Self | Research |
| BF 698-698.9 | Personality | Research |
| BF 699-711 | Genetic Psychology | Research |
| BF 712-724.85 | Developmental Psychology, Infant Psychology, Child Psychology, Adolescence, Adulthood | Research |
| BF 725-727 | Class Psychology | Research |
| BF 796-839 | Temperament, Character | Research |
| BF 839.8-885 | Physiognomy, Phrenology | Research |
| BF 889-905 | Graphology, Study of Handwriting | Research |
| BF 908-940 | The Hand, Palmistry | Research |
| BF 1001-1389 | Parapsychology | Basic Information |
| BF 1001-1045 | Psychic Research, Psychology of the Conscious | Basic Information |
| BF 1048-1108 | Hallucinations, Sleep, Dreaming, Visions  | Basic Information |
| BF 1111-1156 | Hypnotism, Suggestion, Mesmerism, Subliminal Projection  | Basic Information |
| BF 1161-1171 | Telepathy, Mind Reading, Thought Transference | Basic Information |
| BF 1228-1389 | Spiritualism, Mediumship, Spirit Messages, Clairvoyance | Basic Information |
| BF 1404-2055 | Occult Sciences | Basic Information |
| BF 1444-1486 | Ghosts, Apparitions, Hauntings | Basic Information |
| BF 1501-1562 | Demonology, Satanism, Possession | Basic Information |
| BF 1562.5-1584 | Witchcraft | Basic Information |
| BF 1585-1623 | Magic, Hermetics, Necromancy | Basic Information |
| BF 1651-1729 | Astrology | Basic Information |
| BF 1745-1779 | Oracles, Sibyls, Divinations | Basic Information |
| BF 1783-1815 | Seers, Prophets, Prophecies | Basic Information |
| BF 1845-1891 | Fortune-telling | Basic Information |
| BF 2050-2055 | Human-alien Encounters, Contact Between Humans and Extraterrestrials | Basic Information |
| H 1-99 | Social Sciences (General) | Research |
| HA 1-4737 | Statistics | Research |
| HA 29-32 | Theory and Method of Social Science Statistics | Research |
| HA 36-37 | Statistical Services, Statistical Bureaus | Research |
| HA 38-39 | Registration of Vital Events, Vital Records | Research |
| HA 154-4737 | Statistical Data | Research |
| HM 1001-1281 | Social Psychology | Research |
| HM 1041-1101 | Social Perception, Social Cognition, Perception of the Self and Others, Prejudices, Stereotype | Research |
| HM 1106-1171 | Interpersonal Relations, Social Behavior | Research |
| HM 1176-1281 | Social Influence, Social Pressure | Research |
| QP 351-495 | Neurophysiology, Neuropsychology | Research |
| R 726.5-726.8 | Medicine and Disease in Relation to Psychology, Terminal Care, Dying | Research |
| RC 49-52 | Psychosomatic Medicine | Research |
| RC 321-571 | Neurosciences, Biological Psychiatry, Neuropsychiatry | Research |
| RC 346-429 | Neurology, Diseases of the Nervous System Including Speech Disorders | Research |
| RC 435-571 | Psychiatry | Research |
| RC 475-489 | Therapeutics, Psychotherapy | Research |
| RC 490-499 | Hypnotism and Hypnosis, Suggestion Therapy | Research |
| RC 500-510 | Psychoanalysis | Research |
| RC 512-528 | Psychopathology | Research |
| RC 512-528 | Psychoses | Research |
| RC 530-552 | Neuroses | Research |
| RC 554-569.5 | Personality Disorders, Behavior Problems Including Sexual Problems, Drug Abuse, Suicide, Child Abuse | Research |
| RC 569.7-571 | Mental Retardation, Developmental Disabilities | Research |

## Subject Librarian Annual Collection Reports

### 2017

* **Purchases of Significance**
    * SymptomMedia was subscribed to with funds from the psychology monograph budget, the family science librarian's budget, and the new resource request budget. As highlighted on the library A-Z list of databases, &ldquo;SymptomMedia is an online mental health education and training film library available via subscription streaming. Symptom Media's library of over 300 mental health simulations, including a DSM 5 and ICD Guided Film Collection and Assessment Tools, provide viewers with training tools critical for symptom recognition. These innovative films offer visual guideposts to better understand what a particular mental health diagnosis looks like and decreases the stigma for those facing psychological issues.&rdquo;
    * Brain Mapping: An Encyclopidic References was purchases with combined fund from the psychology monograph budget and the neuroscience librarians' budget. As stated on Elsevier's [website](https://www.elsevier.com/books/brain-mapping/toga/978-0-12-397025-1), &ldquo;With over 300 articles and a media rich environment, this resource provides exhaustive coverage of the methods and systems involved in brain mapping, fully links the data to disease (presenting side by side maps of healthy and diseased brains for direct comparisons), and offers data sets and fully annotated color images. Each entry is built on a layered approach of the content – basic information for those new to the area and more detailed material for experienced readers.&rdquo;
  
### 2016

* **Budget Increase**
    * A decision was made to have subject librarians bear the cost of short term loans triggered through the demand driven acquisitions (DDA) program. Over the past several years, patrons have utilized many psychology materials through this program. The psychology monograph budget was increased to compensate for the anticipated increase in charges associated with short term loans.
* **Purchases of Significance**
    * The online *International Encyclopedia of Social and Behavioral Sciences* was purchased with contributions from the psychology monograph fund, family life librarian funds, and general collection funds. This is now recommended as a comprehensive and up-to-date reference work in library instruction sessions for psychology, family life, sociology, etc.

### 2015

* **DDA and Evidence-Based Acquisitions**
    * Psychology-related e-books available through DDA and Wiley's e-book database are heavily utilized, using a substantial portion of allotted monograph funds.
* **Realigning Journal Fund Codes**
    * Departments across the McKay School and Family Home and Social Sciences were previously served by a behavioral science librarian and education librarian. Departments were rearranged to be served by a psychology librarian, family life and sociology librarian, and an education librarian. These three librarians spent considerable time going over journal subscriptions, making sure journals were assigned to the appropriate librarian based on the new arrangement of departments and disciplines.
