---
fund: 34183
fund-name: Organizational Leadership and Strategy
file-name: 34183 Organizational Leadership and Strategy.docx
tags:
 - Leticia Camacho
---

## Overview

The Harold. B. Lee Library supports teaching and research for Organizational Leadership &amp; Strategy (OLS) through the master’s degree teaching level (level 3). Materials are provided for all areas and specializations in organizational leadership and business strategy.

OLS is comprised of three main research and teaching groups: Organizational Behavior/Human Resources Management (OBHR), Strategy, and Entrepreneurship. These groups are committed to developing outstanding leaders in both established and start-up organizations using the most advanced tools designed to solve management problems. The Strategy program place students in leadership functions, human resources, management, consulting, and business analysts positions in major corporations, or in entrepreneurial ventures.

There are 33 full-time faculty, 26 adjunct faculty, 2 administrative staff. The BYU Marriott School of Management offers a four-year Bachelor’s degree in BS Management with emphasis in Organizational Behavior/Human Resources (OBHR) and Strategy and an MBA degree with emphasis in OBHR and Strategy.

Some of the areas of Organizational Leadership &amp; Strategy teaching and research interest in recent decades have included topics related to general business, consulting, customer relationship management, entrepreneurship, ethics, finance, global business, human resources, internet marketing, management communication, marketing management, marketing strategy, new ventures, organizational behavior, organizational change, sales management, supply chain…

The library seeks to support research and teaching through targeted acquisitions, both of new and retrospective materials. Relevance and potential use for teaching and/or research are paramount, and a further factor is the quality of scholarship and presentation. For books, both print and digital formats are collected; where there is a choice, the default is for an e-book. Demand-driven acquisition is used where possible, since it saves money and guarantees usage.

## Degree Programs and Collecting Level

- BS: Teaching Level
- MBA: Teaching Level

## Departments/<wbr>Disciplines/<wbr>Programs/<wbr>Subject Areas

The Organizational Behavior &amp; Strategy collections also reflect the interests of the following departments and programs:

- Accounting
- Business Management
- Entrepreneurship
- Global Supply Chain
- Human Resources
- Information Systems
- Management Communication
- Marketing
- Public Management
- Psychology
- Sociology

## Subject Librarian Annual Collection Reports

### 2016

- **Notable acquisitions (collections, journals, databases)**
 - ProQuest Business Collection, Statista, D&amp; B Key Business Ratios, Mergent Online, Mergent Intellect, Marketline, PitchBook and Capital IQ.

- **Funding adjustments**
 - There has been a significant reduction to the monograph fund in order to support database online subscriptions.

- **Liaison actions pertaining to collections**
 - Purchase of electronic leadership books and videos. Creation of electronic guides to highlight purchases [Organizational Leadership &amp; Strategy: Leadership Sources](http://guides.lib.byu.edu/c.php?g=216427&amp;p=1428936), [Leadership videos](http://guides.lib.byu.edu/c.php?g=216427&amp;p=1428938) and [Recommending books for Organizational Leadership &amp; Strategy](http://guides.lib.byu.edu/c.php?g=216427&amp;p=1428935).

- **Funding adjustments**
    - None
