---
fund: 34318
fund-name: Nutrition, Dietetics, & Food Science
file-name: 34318 NDFS.docx
tags:
 - Greg Nelson
---

## Overview

The library seeks to support teaching and research in Nutrition, Dietetic and Food Science at the Teaching level.

## About the Department

The undergraduate program offers Bachelor of Science degrees for Nutritional Science, Dietetics and Food Science. Nutritional Science students are prepared to enter graduate programs and careers in biotechnology, nutraceutical industries, food security and health advocacy organizations. Dietetics students apply to be in the Didactic Program for Dietetics in their Junior year. They are prepared to become Registered Dieticians able to work as a dietician in many settings, such as clinical, community, and managerial setting. Students in Food Science are prepared for a variety of careers, such as in new food product development, food quality assurance and government regulatory agencies. Undergraduates in NDFS use the library heavily and are regularly engaged with the subject librarian.

The graduate program has Master&#39;s of Science in both Nutritional Science and Food Science.  Nutritional Science students usually are prepared to enter professional degree programs or work in industry. Food Science students are prepared to work in the food industry as product development scientists, technical specialists, government regulators or enter professional degree programs. A written thesis is required for all Master&#39;s students.

## Formats

NDFS faculty and students use online databases and journal articles as their predominant source of information. Online journal article access is available through publisher packages, database subscriptions, and individual title management. Books are purchased mainly via the YBP approval plan. Three to four times a year faculty are provided with a list of new books from YBP slips and queried for firm order requests; very few firm order purchases are made without faculty request. Circulation rates are quite low for monographs. E-books are purchased where possible, to increase accessibility and use.

## Degree Programs and Collecting Levels

- Bachelor of Science, Nutritional Science: Teaching Level
- Bachelor of Science, Dietetics: Teaching Level
- Bachelor of Science, Food Science: Teaching Level
- Master of Science, Nutritional Science: Teaching Level
- Master of Science, Food Science: Teaching Level

## Research Interests

- Clinical malnutrition screening and assessment
- Pediatric nutrition
- Nutrition education
- Selenium and prostate cancer prevention
- Micronutrient fortification and stability
- Folic acid content of foods
- Long-term storage stability of staple foods and commodities
- Effects of diet and exercise on metabolism and bone
- Glucose management
- Diabetes
- Sensory Analysis
- Relationships between sensory science and marketing
- Food engineering
- Dairy and meat science
- Natural anti-cancer chemotherapeutic compounds
- Food safety of ready-to-eat meat products
- Solar drying of indigenous food products in Africa and the Pacific
- Microbial reduction of natural nitrate compounds
- Beta cell stimulation and proliferation

## Subject Librarian Annual Collection Reports

### 2015

### 2016

#### Cancellation project

Evaluate the usage of all the journals under the fund codes of all four of my liaison departments and propose cancellations to free up funds to acquire journals that better align with educational and research priorities of the university. 

I successfully completed this goal with help from the HBLL Serials Department, especially Leila Kramer, Rebecca Boughan, and Kimberly Ha’o. I secured a list of those journals covered by the budget codes for all four of my liaison departments, limited the list to those journals that were not tied up in a package deal and that could be cancelled. Usage numbers for each journal for the past four years was obtained from Rebecca Boughan. I organized the list from most to least used and together with my suggested cancellations, emailed each faculty member in my liaison departments, requesting their feedback. This was a highly successful project and I received productive feedback from the faculty. We cancelled the following: 

| **Department**                        | **# of titles** | **Cancellation funds** |
|---------------------------------------|-----------------|------------------------|
| Chemistry and Biochemistry            | 2               | $3,266.00              |
| Chemical Engineering                  | 2               | $557.05                |
| Microbiology and Molecular Biology    | 6               | $12,058.55             |
| Nutrition, Dietetics and Food Science | 3               | $827.00                |
|---------------------------------------|-----------------|------------------------|
| **TOTAL**                             | **13**          | **$16,708.60**         |

Each department was assured that the cancellation funds would be used to purchase access to journal materials that would support the department’s research and curricular needs. Negotiation of these materials was put on hold while the library navigated and continues to navigate the Journal Retention and Cancellation project as it would seem disingenuous to inquire about new purchases of journals while asking at the same time what journals we should dramatically cut due to the end of our package deals.

#### Journal Retention and Cancellation Project

A budgetary crisis involving the multi-year contracts with major journal publishers has motivated the library to undertake a full scale evaluation of its entire journal collection in each collection area. This evaluation will result in a major cancellation of journals from Springer and Sage (2018), Wiley (2019) and Elsevier (2020). These cancellations will most likely reduce access to journals from these publishers by 88-92%. To use the resulting cancellation funds as effectively as possible, each librarian was asked to work with an appointed representative from each academic department on campus to identify a list of each faculty member’s essential and second tier journals. I met with each departmental representative individually to outline the scope of the issue and presented a timeline to have the faculty lists turned into the library. I have answered concerns and questions as the process has proceeded in the second half of 2016. 

The successful completion of this phase of the project was primarily due to the diligence and work of each departmental representative. I also recognize the excellent work of Jared Howland, Rebecca Boughan and the Library Information System’s team. The department representatives received feedback from most of their faculty members: Chemistry & Biochemistry (20/36, 56%), Chemical Engineering (17/17, 100%), Microbiology and Molecular Biology (17/19, 89%), and Nutrition, Dietetics & Food Science (13/18, 72%). All but one department met their goal of also providing a prioritized departmental list by the end of the year. This project will continue on through 2017 with a focus on the Springer and Sage titles, but will continue when the other journal package deals expire unless an adequate budget solution is reached.

#### ESDU Collection

I worked with Neil Giles (Chemical Engineering) to secure 40 ESDU binders containing recommended values for the physical properties of a large number of chemical substances from Constantine Tsonopoulos, a member of the (ESDU) Physical Properties Committee. The binders occupy slightly more than 5 linear feet on the bookshelf. Angie Workman, Rebecca Schroeder and James Fairbourne greatly helped the acquisition, processing and repair of these volumes. They will be a valuable resource to the students and faculty, especially in the Department of Chemical Engineering.

- **JoVE evaluation**. Evaluated the use of the Journal of Visualized Experiments (JoVE) and potential need for acquiring or cancelling sections.
