---
fund: 34180
fund-name: Business Management
file-name: 34180 Business Management.docx
tags:
 - Andy Spackman
---

## Overview

The Business Management fund supports the Marriott School of Management. Although it is primarily intended to support the Department of Finance and the Deparment of Marketing and Global Supply Chain, the interdisciplinary and collaborative nature of teaching and research in the Marriott School means this fund supports a wide variety of interests, including those represented by centers like the Ballard Center for Economic Self-Reliance, the Global Management Center, field studies programs, and the MBA program.

Faculty research often centers on original datasets, although third-party, proprietary datasets are essential for some. Faculty also require robust access to scholarly journals in these fields. Although some students intend to become academics and have research needs similar to faculty, the majority will become practitioners after receiving their undergraduate or master degree. In addition to scholarly journals, industry and news publications are important, and all students require access to databases that provide the kinds of applied research and actionable business intelligence that they will work with during their careers.

The nature of business research prioritizes current information provided by ongoing subscriptions rather than one-time archival acquisitions.

## Degree Programs and Collecting Level

- Bachelor of Science, Management: Teaching Level
- Bachelor of Science, Finance: Teaching Level
- Master of Business Administration: Teaching Level

## Research Interests

<div class="col">
  <ul>
    <li>Behavioral Finance</li>
    <li>Branding</li>
    <li>Consumer Psychology</li>
    <li>Corporate Finance</li>
    <li>Entrepreneurship</li>
    <li>Ethics</li>
    <li>Financial Economics</li>
    <li>Financial Markets</li>
    <li>Global Business</li>
  </ul>
</div>

<div class="col">
  <ul>
    <li>Logistics</li>
    <li>Marketing</li>
    <li>Marketing Analytics</li>
    <li>Operations Management</li>
    <li>Personal Finance</li>
    <li>Real Estate</li>
    <li>Services Management</li>
    <li>Social Responsibility</li>
    <li>Supply Chain</li>
  </ul>
</div>

<span style="clear:both;"></span>

## Related Departments/<wbr>Disciplines/<wbr>Programs

- The Business Management collections also reflect the interests of the following departments and programs:
    - Accounting
    - Communications
    - Economics
    - Engineering and Technology
    - Information Systems
    - Law
    - Organizational Leadership and Strategy
    - Public Management
    - Recreation Management

## Formats Collected

- Databases are key for some faculty and most students. The majority of these are subscription-based.
- Journals subscriptions and reference materials should be electronic whenever possible. Electronic is generally preferred for monographs as well, with the exception of popular level books which will usually be collected in print. Some popular books receive high use and multiple copies, print and electronic, are warranted.
- Audiovisual materials will be acquired as requested by faculty to support learning objectives for specific courses.

## Annual Collection Reports

### 2016

These liaison interactions, together with the newsletters I send out and my participation in the library's new faculty luncheons, have established awareness and credibility for me among my constituents. When, for instance, a faculty member was to teach a new class in Winter Semester, he was confident in reaching out to me over the holidays, and with the help of the library's excellent people in Acquisitions and the Media Center I was rapidly able to secure dozens of films for his curriculum.

In addition to unusual cases like this, I regularly make print and electronic monograph acquisitions, and consider requests for new journal subscriptions. During 2016 I have also evaluated and acquired the following databases:

- **Statista**: A portal for statistics on business, economics, and almost any topic. This cross-disciplinary tool will be particularly helpful for the first-year and advanced writing programs, including M Com.

- **Capital IQ**: Students have long requested access to CapIQ, and until now their only option was the Bloomberg room in the Tanner Building. The library is now partnering with the Peery Institute of Financial Services, doubling our number of CapIQ licenses, including two to be housed within the library.

- **Mergent Online and Mergent Intellect**: After a year-long evaluation period, and at a cost of $25,000, Leticia Camacho and I made the significant acquisition of a suite of Mergent databases, which we hope will become the centerpiece of the library's company research offerings. The lion's share of this acquisition was funded by the cancellation of S&P NetAdvantage and UniWorld. Our hope is that Mergent might ultimately replace Mint Global, our primary company database for the past ten years, allowing us to further repurpose some of our funds.

After a year-long provisional license, funded with one-time money from the library and money from my monograph budget, I decided not to pursue an ongoing license for Panjiva. My hope was that it would help meet the needs of the supply chain program, but after analyzing usage and consulting with the supply chain faculty over the past year, it became clear our funds could be better employed otherwise. The unusual approach to this temporary acquisition illustrates my willingness to experiment with different models as I work with my faculty to meet their needs.

### 2015

- **Notable Acquisitions**
    - _Panjiva_: database, subscription, serving supply chain students and faculty
    - _Markets of the Future_: add-on to the Euromonitor International Passport database, one-time purchase, serving global business, economics, and marketing
    - _International Trade Centre_: database, subscription, serving supply chain, economics, and global business
    - _Simmons Quick Reports_: add-on to the Simmons OneView database, subscription, serving marketing, advertising, public relations, and entrepreneurship
    - _Mintel Trends_: database, subscription, serving marketing, advertising, public relations, and entrepreneurship
