---
fund: 34275
fund-name: Microbiology and Molecular Biology
file-name: 34275 Microbiology and Molecular Biology.docx
tags:
 - Greg Nelson
---

## Overview

The library seeks to support teaching and research in Microbiology and Molecular Biology at the Research level.

## About the Department

The undergraduate program offers degrees in Microbiology, Molecular Biology and Medical Lab Science. Microbiology and Molecular Biology majors are prepared for graduate work or careers in many medical or health-related fields. Majors in Medical Lab Science are prepared for careers in diagnostic laboratories or other health care settings. All three majors provide excellent preparation for professional schools such as medical, dental or physical therapy school. Undergraduates in Microbiology and Molecular Biology actively use library resources for research projects; however, Medical Lab Science students do not have research projects and the only interaction with the library is during the Advanced Writing curricula.

The graduate program offers a Master's of Science and Doctor of Philosophy degree in Microbiology and Molecular Biology. The programs prepare students to conduct high quality research in government, industry and educational institutions in areas such as immunology, cell biology and bacterial pathogenesis. A written thesis is required for all Master's students and a written dissertation is required for all doctoral students.

## Formats

Overwhelmingly, Microbiology and Molecular Biology faculty and students use online databases and journal articles. Online journal article access is available through publisher packages, database subscriptions, and individual title management. Books are purchased mainly via the YBP approval plan. Three to four times a year faculty are provided with a list of new books from YBP slips and queried for firm order requests; very few firm order purchases are made without faculty request. Circulation rates are quite low for monographs. E-books are purchased where possible, to increase accessibility and use.

## Degree Programs and Collecting Levels

- Bachelor of Science, Microbiology and Molecular Biology: Research Level
- Master of Science, Microbiology and Molecular Biology: Research Level
- Doctor of Philosophy, Microbiology and Molecular Biology: Research Level

## Research Interests

- Viral pathogens of human blood
- Humanization of animal models
- Bacteriophage
- Nuclear variant of BMP2 protein
- Gut microbial effects of human disease
- Statistical genetic analysis of complex diseases
- Automated extraction of phenotypes from electronic medical records
- Pathogen evolution
- Innate immune system
- Yersinia
- Genetic variation
- Symbiotic plant-microbe interactions
- Genetics
- Metabolic regulation
- Bacterial ecosystems in salty water
- Nanoinjection transgene delivery
- Chromatin architecture
- Nucleosome positioning
- Gene regulation
- Plant molecular biology
- Genetic markers of human anxiety and depression
- Mitochondrial diseases
- Cancer risk reduction with phytochemicals
- DNA repair mechanisms
- Early detection of cancer
- Pathogenic bacteria
- Select pathogenic agents
- Compounds used for decontamination, disinfection, and infection control
- T cell activation and memory cell formation to pathogens
- T cell receptor affinity
- Immune cell homing

## Subject Librarian Annual Collection Reports

### 2016

#### Cancellation project

Evaluate the usage of all the journals under the fund codes of all four of my liaison departments and propose cancellations to free up funds to acquire journals that better align with educational and research priorities of the university. 

I successfully completed this goal with help from the HBLL Serials Department, especially Leila Kramer, Rebecca Boughan, and Kimberly Ha’o. I secured a list of those journals covered by the budget codes for all four of my liaison departments, limited the list to those journals that were not tied up in a package deal and that could be cancelled. Usage numbers for each journal for the past four years was obtained from Rebecca Boughan. I organized the list from most to least used and together with my suggested cancellations, emailed each faculty member in my liaison departments, requesting their feedback. This was a highly successful project and I received productive feedback from the faculty. We cancelled the following: 

| **Department**                        | **# of titles** | **Cancellation funds** |
|---------------------------------------|-----------------|------------------------|
| Chemistry and Biochemistry            | 2               | $3,266.00              |
| Chemical Engineering                  | 2               | $557.05                |
| Microbiology and Molecular Biology    | 6               | $12,058.55             |
| Nutrition, Dietetics and Food Science | 3               | $827.00                |
|---------------------------------------|-----------------|------------------------|
| **TOTAL**                             | **13**          | **$16,708.60**         |

Each department was assured that the cancellation funds would be used to purchase access to journal materials that would support the department’s research and curricular needs. Negotiation of these materials was put on hold while the library navigated and continues to navigate the Journal Retention and Cancellation project as it would seem disingenuous to inquire about new purchases of journals while asking at the same time what journals we should dramatically cut due to the end of our package deals.

#### Journal Retention and Cancellation Project

A budgetary crisis involving the multi-year contracts with major journal publishers has motivated the library to undertake a full scale evaluation of its entire journal collection in each collection area. This evaluation will result in a major cancellation of journals from Springer and Sage (2018), Wiley (2019) and Elsevier (2020). These cancellations will most likely reduce access to journals from these publishers by 88-92%. To use the resulting cancellation funds as effectively as possible, each librarian was asked to work with an appointed representative from each academic department on campus to identify a list of each faculty member’s essential and second tier journals. I met with each departmental representative individually to outline the scope of the issue and presented a timeline to have the faculty lists turned into the library. I have answered concerns and questions as the process has proceeded in the second half of 2016. 

The successful completion of this phase of the project was primarily due to the diligence and work of each departmental representative. I also recognize the excellent work of Jared Howland, Rebecca Boughan and the Library Information System’s team. The department representatives received feedback from most of their faculty members: Chemistry & Biochemistry (20/36, 56%), Chemical Engineering (17/17, 100%), Microbiology and Molecular Biology (17/19, 89%), and Nutrition, Dietetics & Food Science (13/18, 72%). All but one department met their goal of also providing a prioritized departmental list by the end of the year. This project will continue on through 2017 with a focus on the Springer and Sage titles, but will continue when the other journal package deals expire unless an adequate budget solution is reached.

#### ESDU Collection

I worked with Neil Giles (Chemical Engineering) to secure 40 ESDU binders containing recommended values for the physical properties of a large number of chemical substances from Constantine Tsonopoulos, a member of the (ESDU) Physical Properties Committee. The binders occupy slightly more than 5 linear feet on the bookshelf. Angie Workman, Rebecca Schroeder and James Fairbourne greatly helped the acquisition, processing and repair of these volumes. They will be a valuable resource to the students and faculty, especially in the Department of Chemical Engineering.

### 2015

- **JoVE evaluation**. Evaluated the use of the Journal of Visualized Experiments (JoVE) and potential need for acquiring or cancelling sections.
