---
fund: 34142
fund-name: Family and Local History
file-name: 34142 Family and Local History.docx
tags:
  - Terry Dahlin
---

## Annual Budget Allocation

At the request of the library administration, all expenditures for library print monographs and serials are debited to family and local history endowment and gift accounts.

## Overview

The library supports family history and local history teaching and research at the teaching level.

Interest in family history has grown dramatically in recent years.  There has been particular growth in large organizations that create enormous databases of online family history resources, such as FamilySearch, Ancestry, FindMyPast, MyHeritage, and Accessible Archives.  This online growth has led to increased library expenditures for subscriptions to large databases.

There is still significant publishing of print monographs in family and local history.  E-books are becoming more available, but usually they are produced by small associations as unique publications and not as part of large, well-organized e-book databases. Print periodicals still exist for these subjects, but some periodicals are being transferred to electronic form.  The need for and acquisition of microforms has been reduced, although a limited number of Utah newspapers are still being collected by the library on microfilm because that is the only medium in which they are available.  FamilySearch’s elimination of the microform-lending program in September 2017 has accelerated a process that most likely will lead to more family and local history sources being produced digitally.  

The library collects both new and retrospective materials that meet the needs of university faculty and students.

## Degree Programs and Collecting Level

- Bachelor of Arts in Family History/Genealogy in the History Department: Teaching Level
- Minor in Family History/Genealogy in the History Department: Teaching Level
- Bachelor of General Studies in History (Family History Track) in the Division of Continuing Education: Teaching Level


## Service Courses Supported

- Church History and Doctrine 261 – Introduction to Family History/Genealogy
- Church History and Doctrine 293R – Courses offered in alternating semesters on Native American Family History; French and Italian Family History; Latin American, Spanish, and Portuguese Family History; Slavic Family History; Germanic Family History; Specialized Studies in Family History (Genealogy); LDS Family History; United States and Canada Family History; British Family History; and Scandinavian Family History
- History 217 – Family Historian’s Craft

## Research Interests

- General family history and genealogy research sources and methods
- U.S. and European local history
- Paleography
- Specializations in various geographic, ethnic, or religious genealogical research areas, such as British family history research, Native American family history research, and LDS family history research.


## Departments/<wbr>Disciplines/<wbr>Programs

The family and local history collections reflect the interests of the following departments and programs:

- History Department
- Church History Department
- Center for Family History and Genealogy
- Division of Continuing Education
- Department of Computer Science Family History Technology Lab

The History Department manages the B.A. degree in family history/genealogy, the only bachelor’s program in family history available in North America. The Church History Department collaborates with the History Department and offers related courses in family history.  The Church History Department also runs a computer lab in the Joseph F. Smith Building for training Church History and Doctrine 261 family history students.  The Center for Family History and Genealogy serves as a research, digital publishing, and internship arm of the History Department.  The Bachelor of General Studies degree track in family history /genealogy is managed by the Division of Continuing Education.  The BYU Family History Technology Lab creates online research tools for family history under the auspices of the Computer Science Department.  The involvement of several campus units in family history-related programs increases the complexity of interactions and requires more coordination by the family and local history librarian.
