---
fund: 34285
fund-name: Nursing
file-name: 34285 Nursing.docx
tags:
 - Betsy Hopkins
---

The library seeks to support teaching and research in Nursing at the Teaching level.

## About the Department

The undergraduate program teaches students to care for patients of different ages, in a variety of settings, and across a spectrum of needs. Classes include nursing specialties such as public health, medical-surgical, acute care, psychiatric, and labor and delivery. Research assignments are integrated throughout the six semester program, starting in the second semester and culminating in the capstone research paper.

The graduate program prepares students for professional practice as Family Nurse Practitioners, who serve people of every age in different clinical settings. Support for this program requires selected professional-level clinical information. In addition, these students complete a thesis or evidence-based scholarly paper.

## Formats

Overwhelmingly, Nursing faculty and students use online databases and journal articles. Online journal article access is available through publisher packages, database subscriptions, and individual title management. Books are purchased mainly via the YBP approval plan. Twice a year faculty are provided with a list of new books from YBP slips and queried for firm order requests; very few firm order purchases are made without faculty request. Circulation rates are quite low for monographs. E-books are purchased where possible, to increase accessibility and use.

## Nursing Learning Center

In addition to the nursing collection in the HBLL building, the library supports a small collection of books and media in the Nursing Learning Center. Most of these items circulate like reserve items, with varying checkout periods depending on the item. The library purchases NLC items as requested, including videos and some kits.

## Degree Programs and Collecting Levels

- Bachelor of Science, Nursing: Teaching Level
- Master of Science, Family Nurse Practitioner: Teaching Level

## Research Interests

- Nursing education
- Simulation
- Care of the veteran population
- End of life care
- Critical care
- Public health
- Quality, leadership, and administration
- Cultural and international nursing
- Orthopedics and sports medicine
- Compassion fatigue
- Women's health
- Genetic counseling
- Breast cancer prevention
- Immunizations
- Childhood obesity
- Ethics
- PTSD
- Trauma
- Forensics
- Families of children with disabilities
- Vitamin D

## Subject Librarian Annual Collection Reports

### 2016

- **Collection Development Policies**. As part of the library-wide project, I wrote collection development policies for my two collecting areas. My policies described the degree programs, research assignments, and research areas of interest for Nursing and Communication Disorders, and provided information about the formats I collect and why.
- **Micromedex**. For a number of years, Micromedex has been available basically for free through an academic program. That program ended this year, so I submitted a request for this database in the spring resource request cycle. The cost is $1195. Based on last year’s usage of 1440, the cost per use would be $.83.
- **R2 Library PDA Trial**. In September, we began a patron-driven acquisitions trial of R2 Library, a biomedical e-books platform. Before the trial began, I coordinated with the R2 rep, other life sciences librarians, and the electronic resources librarian. In addition, I curated the title list, removing NLC duplicates and drug guides. After 4 months of the trial, only one title has been triggered, and I did not purchase it because the use was prompted by a course reserve question. Due to high cost and low use, I suspect that the trial will end in 2017 and that we will not subscribe to any R2 titles.
- **Journal Cancellation Project**. I participated in the library-wide journal cancellation and retention project by attending most related meetings, communicating with department representatives, presenting at a College of Nursing faculty meeting, and reminding faculty of deadlines.
- **Byugle License Review**. In an attempt to remove the time-intensive group Colleen Tingey (Nursing) manages on Byugle, I reviewed the license terms for all nursing videos on Byugle. A number of issues arose that led to the renewal of some licenses and removal of some videos. We weren’t able to entirely remove the group but we were able to reduce Colleen’s workload significantly.
- **Metrics for Nursing Rank and Status Document**. By far the most substantial and time-consuming project of the year was my work on the College of Nursing’s Rank and Status document, which was instigated by the Dean of the College of Nursing in June. As part of this project, I:
    - Participated in several meetings with Nursing Dean and Associate Deans; attended a meeting with Craig Hart, Associate Academic VP for Faculty, and Nursing Deans; attended Nursing Faculty Assembly where changes to the document were proposed and approved.
    - Conducted literature search on bibliometrics or publication metrics in nursing. The literature confirmed what I suspected already: impact factors alone don’t work well in nursing, and using a number of different measures together provides a better perspective.
    - Rewrote relevant section of rank and status document to reflect changing nature of the field and appropriate evaluation criteria for establishing the quality of a journal.
    - Created new template for capturing metrics, comprised of seven tables divided into three sections: author-level metrics, article-level metrics, and journal-level metrics. The template includes explanations of each metric, with definitions and examples. I expect to modify this document on an ongoing basis, to reflect the changing field.
    - Completed process of collecting metrics for two faculty members submitting rank and status portfolios in December.

### 2015

- **Incidence and Prevalence Database.** Cancelled due to low use over 1-year period.
- **Nursing Education in Video**. Purchased upgrade package (videos 2012-2020) for one-time $15,000 ($2,500 from consolidated funds).
- **Lippincott, Williams, and Wilkins Journals**. Purchased increased concurrent users for 12 titles, based on high turnaways, with help from Mike Goates and Meg Frost.
- **NLC Browse Page**. Coordinated work on the NLC browse page, which will resemble the [Popular Reading browse page](http:/<wbr>/<wbr>lib.byu.edu/<wbr>books/<wbr>popular-reading/<wbr>). For the first time nursing patrons will be able to search within the NLC collection. Images will improve the patron experience.
