---
fund: 34285
fund-name: Communication Disorders
file-name: 34285 Communication Disorders.docx
tags:
 - Betsy Hopkins
---

The library seeks to support teaching and research in Communication Disorders at the Teaching level.

## About the Department

The undergraduate degree in Communication Disorders prepares students for a graduate program, which is required for practice. Undergraduates in Communication Disorders use very few library resources due to very few research assignments. ComD students meet the university's Advanced Writing requirement through a number of classes, including Persuasive Writing, Technical Writing, and Communication in Organizational Settings. Some of these students write a paper in their major but others do not depending on group assignments.

The Master's degree in Communication Disorders prepares students for professional practice as a speech-language pathologist; SLPs treat persons with speech and language disorders such as stuttering, articulation problems, aphasia, voice disorders, language delay, and similar communication difficulties. The BYU Master of Science degree in Communication Disorders includes a thesis requirement.

## Formats

Faculty and graduate students in Communication Disorders use primarily online databases and journal articles. Online journal article access is available through publisher packages, database subscriptions, and individual title management. Books are purchased mainly via the YBP approval plan. Twice a year faculty are provided with a list of new books from YBP slips and queried for firm order requests; very few firm order purchases are made without faculty request. Circulation rates are quite low for monographs.

## Degree Programs and Collecting Levels

- Bachelor of Science, Communication Disorders: Teaching Level
- Master of Science, Communication Disorders: Teaching Level

## Research Interests

- Language impairment and social competence
- Hearing aid evaluation; hearing screenings and assessments
- Algorithms for syntactic analysis and for modeling language acquisition
- Language and literacy instruction and intervention
- Speech motor control and motor speech disorders
- Divided attention task interactions
- Acoustic, aerodynamic and kinematic analysis of speech production
- Speech measurement technologies
- Development of digitally recorded speech audiometry materials in foreign languages
- Event related potential studies in language, cognition, and auditory processing and function
- Neurophysiological foundations of sensory development
- Speech production in adults and typically developing children
- The professional voice
- Cross-linguistic communication
- Communicative rehabilitation from neurologic injury
- Social communication in children with autism
- Educating graduate students in SLP
- Laryngeal and airway surface tissue hydration
- Voice disorders epidemiology

## Subject Librarian Annual Collection Reports

### 2018
- **Stacks Reduction**
    - In 2017, the Science and Engineering department was asked to reduce stacks on Level 2 to make room for new construction. We conducted a thorough collection assessment, using Greenglass to set criteria and generate lists of material to review, and then reviewed each tagged item in the stacks. I completed review of my level 2 print collections in August, meeting the firm deadline of September 1, 2018.
    - **Items reviewed.** Nursing and communication disorders both encompass multiple call number ranges. In addition, some nursing materials are cataloged outside of assigned nursing call numbers. I used a keyword search for &quot;nurs\*&quot; across all fields to identify nursing items from the Rs, which led to over 800 additional items to review. See the last page for a listing of call number ranges.
    - **Review criteria**. In nursing, I reviewed any item published before 2012 that did not circulate in the last 5 years. In communication disorders, recent publication is less important. In this area, I reviewed everything published before 1998 as well as anything that was published between 1999 and 2007 that had circulated fewer than 6 times. In both cases, I considered items for withdrawal when they were held by 15 or more libraries, and for removal to Auxstor when held by 14 or fewer libraries. While reviewing in the stacks, I kept:
        - All nursing history items.
        - All items published by the American Nursing Association.
        - Representative items on nursing theory, regardless of publication date or circulations.
        - Representative nursing books published in the last 15 years, if the items were the most recently published items in the collection.
        - Items that mentioned acoustics, per a request from the Physics department.
    - **Hours**. Of the total 102 hours I spent on the stacks reduction project, 76 of them were in 2018. I worked one extra day per week in January and February, a 33% increase in hours. The great majority of these hours were spent reviewing items in the stacks.
    - **SFUs** : I reviewed 56 entire single facing units, in my assigned call number areas. Then, I reviewed nursing items identified from a keyword search across 383 SFUs.
    - **Volumes reviewed**. Total non-serial volumes reviewed: 7,720.
    - **Volumes removed**. Total volumes (monograph and serial) removed from the shelf: 6,875.
        - Recommended to withdraw: 6,355.
        - Moved to Auxstor: 520.
- **Journal and Database Renewals**
    - **Lippincott, Williams, and Wilkins (LWW) subscriptions**. LWW journals received an automatic 8% increase this year, because of our overall volume discount of 20%. Usage is high, and my cancellation funds covered the increase. I was able to identify an error in Dimensions in Critical Care Nursing&#39;s increase and correct it from 11.5% to 8%.
    - **Two renewals above 4%**. Two additional titles were renewed at rates above 4%: Seminars in Speech and Language, and Journal of Alternative and Complementary Medicine. Both receive significant usage, and my cancellation funds covered the renewal.
    - **UpToDate**. UpToDate&#39;s first renewal price was a 6% increase over last year&#39;s price. I challenged this increase and provided a new student headcount, which led to an increase of only 1.8%.
- **Individual Serials Review**
    - Most of my journals receive enough usage to justify keeping the subscriptions. However, I did cancel the print-only subscription to the _Annual Review of Nursing Research_ due to low use. I maintained the subscription to the _Pediatric &amp; Neonatal Dosage Handbook_ for now, because it was requested by a nursing professor.
- **AuxStorSer Review**
    - I recommended the withdrawal of old paper copies of the Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature, as the information is duplicated in CINAHL.
- **Nursing**

| R729.5.N87 |
| --- |
| RA1155 |
| RA997-999 |
| RC1097 |
| RC180.8 |
| RC266 |
| RC311.8 |
| RC350.5 |
| RC440 |
| RC674 |
| RC735.5 |
| RC874.7 |
| RC954 |
| RC966 |
| RD32.3 |
| RD51.3 |
| RD93.95 |
| RD99-99.35 |
| RD100 |
| RD110.5 |
| RD111-114 |
| RD118.75 |
| RD129.8 |
| RD596 |
| RD753 |
| RE88 |
| RF52.5 |
| RG105 |
| RG951 |
| RJ245-247 |
| RJ249 |
| RJ502.3 |
| RK60.5 |
| RL125 |
| RM125RT |
|

- **Communication Disorders**

| RC423-429 |
| --- |
| RF |
| RJ496.C67 |
| RJ496.L35 |
| RJ496.S7 |
| RJ496.S8 |
| RJ 506.S68 |

### 2017
- **Journal Cancellation Project**
    - Before the cancellation reprieve was announced in March 2017, I compiled ranked lists of Springer and Sage journals for my areas, using usage data and faculty feedback.
- **Stacks Reduction**
    - Initial work on this project began before the summer, when I began formulating criteria for my collections and estimating how much I could remove based on walking through the collection. My initial estimates for reduction were 70% for RG and RT (nursing) and 20% for RF (communication disorders).
    - More detailed work happened in the fall as I developed my deselection lists and began weeding. I have at least the equivalent of 54 SFUs to review, and as of 12/18/2017 have completed 3.5. As of 12/20/2017 I have spent 25 hours on the project.
- **Databases**
    - **Micromedex.** I presented in CMDC in Winter semester, after a one year trial of access. Usage was significant, so I recommended that we maintain access to Micromedex.
    - **EMBASE.** I communicated with my faculty during the trial and promoted the database when it was purchased.

### 2016

- **Collection Development Policies**. As part of the library-wide project, I wrote collection development policies for my two collecting areas. My policies described the degree programs, research assignments, and research areas of interest for Nursing and Communication Disorders, and provided information about the formats I collect and why.
- **Journal Cancellation Project**. I participated in the library-wide journal cancellation and retention project by attending most related meetings, communicating with department representatives, presenting at a College of Nursing faculty meeting, and reminding faculty of deadlines.

### 2015

- **Topics in Language Disorders**. Switched from print only subscription to online only subscription.
