---
fund: 34255
fund-name: Chemistry and Biochemistry
file-name: 34255 Chemistry and Biochemistry.docx
tags:
 - Greg Nelson
---

## Overview

The library seeks to support teaching and research in Chemistry and Biochemistry at the Research level.

## About the Department

The Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry is functionally divided into five research areas: Analytical Chemistry, Inorganic Chemistry, Organic Chemistry, Physical Chemistry and Biochemistry.

The undergraduate program has degrees in Biochemistry (BS), Chemistry (BA), Chemistry (BS), Chemistry Education (BS), with minors in Chemistry and Chemistry Education. The Chemistry Bachelor of Science degree is the preferred degree designed for students considering an advanced degree (MS or PhD) or for those in preprofessional programs, such as medicine or dentistry. The Biochemistry Bachelor of Science degree is designed for students with an interest in an advanced degree in biochemistry or who may be interested in health-related fields, such as medicine or veterinary medicine. Chemistry Education Bachelor of Science degree provides the preparation necessary for high school teaching. Each major fulfills the Advanced Writing component through the Chemistry 391 course, which has 3–4 class periods for library instruction.

The Master's degree in Chemistry (Analytical, Inorganic, Organic, Physical) or Biochemistry is primarily research-based, though there is required coursework. The programs are meant to prepare students to conduct high quality research in government, industry and educational institutions. A minimum of 30 semester hours are required, which include coursework, seminars, research and thesis. A written thesis with an oral presentation and defense is required. There are no library associated courses or classes required for Masters students.

The Doctoral degree in Chemistry (Analytical, Inorganic, Organic, Physical) or Biochemistry is primarily research-based, though there is required coursework. The programs prepare students to conduct high quality research in government, industry and educational institutions. A minimum of 54 semester hours are required, which include coursework, seminars, research and thesis. A written dissertation with an oral presentation and defense is required. Most doctoral students do not have a library component except those in Organic Chemistry. The library teaches a workshop for these doctoral students so that they can pass an electronic information retrieval exam.

## Formats

Chemistry and Biochemistry faculty and students predominantly use online databases and journal articles. Online journal article access is available through publisher packages, database subscriptions, and individual title management. Books are purchased mainly via the YBP approval plan. Three to four times a year faculty are provided with a list of new books from selected YBP slips and queried for firm order requests; very few firm order purchases are made without faculty request. Circulation rates are quite low for monographs. E-books are purchased where possible, to increase accessibility and use.

## Degree Programs and Collecting Levels

- Bachelor of Science, Biochemistry: Teaching Level
- Bachelor of Science, Chemistry: Teaching Level
- Bachelor of Arts, Chemistry: Teaching Level
- Bachelor of Science, Chemistry Education: Teaching Level
- Master of Science, Biochemistry: Research Level
- Master of Science, Chemistry: Research Level
- Doctor of Philosophy, Biochemistry: Research Level
- Doctor of Philosophy, Chemistry: Research Level

## Research Interests

- Chemoresistance in cancer
- Pathogenesis of familial Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis
- Organic synthesis of natural products and peptides
- Organometallic Catalysis
- Mass Spectroscopy
- Nuclear Magnetic Resonance
- HIV pathogenesis
- Chemotherapeutics
- Glucose metabolism in eukaryotic parasites
- Angiogenesis
- Fourier transform mass spectrometer
- Transition-metal catalysis modeling
- Modeling of organic reactions and catalysis
- Analytical spectroscopy
- Lasers and optics
- Preeclampsia
- Clinical chemistry
- Biofuel/<wbr>Alternative Energy
- Atmospheric and Environmental Chemistry
- Molecular recognition
- Ion chromatography
- Nanomaterials
- Material surface modification
- Vibrationally resonant sum-frequency generation
- High performance liquid chromatography
- Antitumor and antiviral synthesis
- Stable isotope labeling of living cells
- Protein folding
- Bioorganic chemistry
- Protein glycosylation
- Protein synthesis using unnatural amino acids
- Membrane active antibiotics
- Glycolipid immunology
- Chemical reaction dynamics
- Signal transduction
- X-ray Diffraction
- Carbon dioxide catalysis
- Bioinorganic chemistry
- Molecular signaling complexes
- Chemical Thermodynamics
- Synthesis of Nanoparticles
- Fisher-Tropsch Catalysis
- Micro-and Nanometer-Scale Chemical Manipulation and Analysis

## Subject Librarian Annual Collection Reports

### 2016

#### Cancellation project

Evaluate the usage of all the journals under the fund codes of all four of my liaison departments and propose cancellations to free up funds to acquire journals that better align with educational and research priorities of the university. 

I successfully completed this goal with help from the HBLL Serials Department, especially Leila Kramer, Rebecca Boughan, and Kimberly Ha’o. I secured a list of those journals covered by the budget codes for all four of my liaison departments, limited the list to those journals that were not tied up in a package deal and that could be cancelled. Usage numbers for each journal for the past four years was obtained from Rebecca Boughan. I organized the list from most to least used and together with my suggested cancellations, emailed each faculty member in my liaison departments, requesting their feedback. This was a highly successful project and I received productive feedback from the faculty. We cancelled the following: 

| **Department**                        | **# of titles** | **Cancellation funds** |
|---------------------------------------|-----------------|------------------------|
| Chemistry and Biochemistry            | 2               | $3,266.00              |
| Chemical Engineering                  | 2               | $557.05                |
| Microbiology and Molecular Biology    | 6               | $12,058.55             |
| Nutrition, Dietetics and Food Science | 3               | $827.00                |
|---------------------------------------|-----------------|------------------------|
| **TOTAL**                             | **13**          | **$16,708.60**         |

Each department was assured that the cancellation funds would be used to purchase access to journal materials that would support the department’s research and curricular needs. Negotiation of these materials was put on hold while the library navigated and continues to navigate the Journal Retention and Cancellation project as it would seem disingenuous to inquire about new purchases of journals while asking at the same time what journals we should dramatically cut due to the end of our package deals.

#### Journal Retention and Cancellation Project

A budgetary crisis involving the multi-year contracts with major journal publishers has motivated the library to undertake a full scale evaluation of its entire journal collection in each collection area. This evaluation will result in a major cancellation of journals from Springer and Sage (2018), Wiley (2019) and Elsevier (2020). These cancellations will most likely reduce access to journals from these publishers by 88-92%. To use the resulting cancellation funds as effectively as possible, each librarian was asked to work with an appointed representative from each academic department on campus to identify a list of each faculty member’s essential and second tier journals. I met with each departmental representative individually to outline the scope of the issue and presented a timeline to have the faculty lists turned into the library. I have answered concerns and questions as the process has proceeded in the second half of 2016. 

The successful completion of this phase of the project was primarily due to the diligence and work of each departmental representative. I also recognize the excellent work of Jared Howland, Rebecca Boughan and the Library Information System’s team. The department representatives received feedback from most of their faculty members: Chemistry & Biochemistry (20/36, 56%), Chemical Engineering (17/17, 100%), Microbiology and Molecular Biology (17/19, 89%), and Nutrition, Dietetics & Food Science (13/18, 72%). All but one department met their goal of also providing a prioritized departmental list by the end of the year. This project will continue on through 2017 with a focus on the Springer and Sage titles, but will continue when the other journal package deals expire unless an adequate budget solution is reached.

#### ESDU Collection

I worked with Neil Giles (Chemical Engineering) to secure 40 ESDU binders containing recommended values for the physical properties of a large number of chemical substances from Constantine Tsonopoulos, a member of the (ESDU) Physical Properties Committee. The binders occupy slightly more than 5 linear feet on the bookshelf. Angie Workman, Rebecca Schroeder and James Fairbourne greatly helped the acquisition, processing and repair of these volumes. They will be a valuable resource to the students and faculty, especially in the Department of Chemical Engineering.

### 2015

- **Infotherm database.** Secured funding for the license of this database of thermodynamic data.
- **JoVE evaluation**. Evaluated the use of the Journal of Visualized Experiments (JoVE) and potential need for acquiring or cancelling sections.
