---
fund: 34236
fund-name: Juvenile Literature
file-name: 34236 Juvenile Literature.docx
tags:
 - Rachel Wadham
---

## Overview

The library supports a collection of juvenile literature in order to provide necessary resources for curriculum usage and personal enjoyment. It is the goal of the Harold. B. Lee Library to support the teaching efforts of the University as such the juvenile literature collection exists primarily to support these efforts. As such it is a collection designed to support those areas that teach the use of juvenile literature as an educational tool and those areas that teach the creation and production of juvenile literature. While first and foremost a teaching collection the juvenile collection also serves to fulfill the personal reading needs of faculty, staff, students, and their families. The juvenile literature collection includes literature and materials that are aimed primarily at a juvenile audience (children from birth to age 19) that is most connected to those topics, formats, genres, and texts that will most likely be used by or serve as examples for students in their future professional careers.

## Degree Programs and Collecting Levels

- BS in Elementary Education: Teaching Level
- BS in Secondary Education (Departmental Emphasis in Fine Arts and Communications; Biology and Agriculture; Physical and Mathematical Sciences; Life Sciences; Humanities; Family, Home, and Social Sciences; Engineering and Technology): Teaching Level
- BS in Early Childhood Education: Teaching Level
- BS in Physical Education – Teacher Education: Teaching Level
- MA in Teacher Education: Teaching Level
- BA and BFA in Visual Art: Teaching Level
- BA and BFA in Illustration: Teaching Level
- BFA in Animation: Teaching Level
- BA and BFA in Graphic Design: Teaching Level
- BA in English: Teaching Level
- MA in English: Teaching Level

## Research Interests

Some of the areas of interest for juvenile literature teaching and research in recent decades have included topics related to author studies, textual analysis, teaching applications, literacy needs, multimodal, genres, formats, illustration techniques, design considerations, and creative writing.

## Disciplines/<wbr>Programs/<wbr>Subject Areas

The juvenile literature collection reflects the interests of the following disciplines, programs, and subject areas:

- Teacher Education (Elementary and Secondary): focuses on the use of juvenile literature as a tool for classroom instruction and reading development.
- Visual Art, Illustration, Animation and Graphic Design: focuses on the art and illustration of juvenile literature as well as the design of the book as object and multimedia connections (i.e. books made into movies, etc.).
- English: focuses on the writing craft and creation of books for a juvenile audience.

## Formats Collected

The library builds the juvenile collection though the acquisition of both of new and retrospective materials. Current material is primarily emphasized, with earlier or out-of-print materials collected to replace damaged or lost copies of significant works; in response to faculty or students requests; or to fill in a gap in existing collections. Relevance and potential use for teaching is paramount consideration for selection. A further factor is the quality of the work and its presentation. Award winning or works of critical acclaim are also targeted. Books of all varieties are to be considered for acquisition in this collection, including picture books, beginning readers, intermediate readers, novels, illustrated novels, chapter books, graphic novels, toy and movable books, biography, and nonfiction. Print resources are preferred. When purchased e-books are normally acquired exclusively though the overdrive platform. Audio books are also purchased and where possible e-formats though overdrive are given preference over physical versions. A few select juvenile periodicals, magazines and journals are collected the are hosed with the collection as part of the regular stacks collections.

## Subject Librarian Annual Collection Reports

## 2016

- 1,427 items were purchased through approval plans and title standing order
- Review of remaining locked case books and a few remaining from special collections disbanding
- Review of holding shelves from cataloging left and recently discovered after the retirement of the juvenile literature cataloger.
- Began review and weeding of multiple copies.
- Explored potential of removing the Big Books collection.

### 2015

- 1,087 items were purchased through approval plans and title standing order
- Review of all the juvenile books in the locked case. Many were removed to stacks the remainder that were staying in locked case were moved from the fourth floor locked case room to be placed with all other locked case items.

### 2007-2015 Notes of Historical Significance

- When the Juvenile Collections were placed under the responsibility of the Education Librarian changes were made to the collection to make them more connected to the curriculum these changes included:
    - Disbanding the Utah Authors Collection: Utah and Mormon authors are still collected but with books going to the general open stacks
    - Disbanding the Juvenile Special Collections: Collections aimed at a juvenile audience that fit collecting polies of special collections are now collected though the traditional channels of Americana and Rare
    - Disbanding the Juvenile Reference Collections: These collections were integrated with the Social Science Reference or moved to auxiliary storage or to the stacks.
    - Discontinued the standing order programs though Yankee Book: Books are now all ordered individually though Ingram.
    - Discontinued the use of the BYU Bookstore Approval Plan: Books are now all ordered individually though Ingram.
    - Review and weeding of the 900s call number
