---
fund: 34240
fund-name: General Science
file-name: 34240 General Science.docx
tags:
 - Greg Nelson
---

## Overview

This collection does not serve a specific discipline but rather covers a wide range of scientific topics, often dealing with history or other general discussions about science in the aggregate as opposed to details of specific disciplines. This fund primarily covers the Q (Science – General) call numbers.

This collection is generally maintained at the Representative level. Where needed or requested by faculty, certain sub-topics may be collected at the higher Teaching level.

Selections for the collection are primarily made via approval plans and selection of current topics by the subject librarian. Faculty and patron requests supplement this selection when appropriate. There is a slight focus in new acquisitions on materials related to the history of science as well as materials that attempt to explain science for the non-scientist.

## Degree Programs & Collecting Levels

There are no specific degrees or programs supported by this collection

## Research Interests

There are no specific research interests within this field.

## Departments/<wbr>Disciplines/<wbr>Programs/<wbr>Subject Areas

There are not specific departments or programs supported by this collection.

## Subject Librarian Annual Collection Reports

### 2018

- The major collection development activity for 2017-2018 was a full-scale evaluation of the entire print Science and Engineering collection, excluding reference, quarto and folio materials. A realignment and reallocation of space in the south end of the second floor required the librarians of the Science and Engineering department to complete this project, which they did on time. The department as a whole proposed for withdrawal or transfer to AuxStor approximately 240,000 individual items from the collection including individual analyzed and nonanalyzed serials. I selected 43,826 items for withdrawal or transfer to AuxStor by evaluating 570 out of 2,654 single facing units in this project and spent 314.5 hours completing these responsibilities and assisting other librarians to complete the project on time. This was a significant effort that was not without a loss of opportunity cost. The post-project collection now occupies approximately 40% of the space that was occupied prior to this collection review. I was the primary driver and tester for the development of the modified ScholarSearch, Virtual Review Shelf, that allows nonstudent employees of BYU to provide feedback on materials slated for withdrawal. Many thanks to Brian Rennick, Curtis Thacker, and Charles Draper for their work on developing the software and implementing the department’s suggestions on this tool.
 - I completed on time the review of individually subscribed journals and the AuxStorSer collection review.
 - In 2017 I made two major purchases and contributed to an evidence based eBooks program. The first major addition was the acquisition of the Chemical and Engineering News (C&EN) Archive at a 15% discount (savings to the University of $2,292) and a waiver of the annual maintenance fee of $370 when we renewed the American Chemical Society Web Editions, All Publications package. I secured the funding from the CMDC semi-annual resources call.
 - The second major addition was the purchase of the American Chemical Society Symposium Series eBook Archive. This purchase resulted in a 35% discount on the 2015-2018 front list and a 10% discount on the 1949-2014 Archive. This will provide more than 1,100 eBooks to the Symposium series and increase accessibility and use of this collection. I used 2017 end of year money from the consolidated budget for those subjects I have stewardship over as well as from the General Science and Science Reference budgets in consultation with the Science & Engineering Department. I also used a significant portion of the available Francis Broadbent Endowment.
 - I utilized some of the funds allocated for collection development in addition to the typical monographic purchases. The library participates in a Wiley Evidence Based eBooks program from which I contributed $18,872 for subjects that met the use criteria for obtaining perpetual access. Infotherm, a Wiley database, was discontinued and I was returned the stewardship for the $3,000 used for that subscription. I used $482 of those cancellation funds to pay for increase in the AOCS Methods database because its annual increase was over the library mandated 4%. Keeping the AOCS Methods database will continue to provide access primarily to the Department of Nutrition, Dietetics and Food Science. With the passing of Peter Zuber, I have also taken responsibility for the collection development of the Science Reference and General Science budgets.
