---
fund: 34205
fund-name: Education
file-name: 34205 Education.docx
tags:
 - Rachel Wadham
---

## Overview

The library supports education in all areas and specializations. It is the goal of the Harold. B. Lee Library to support teaching and research though the Ph.D. degree research level. The education collection of the Library supports faculty and students in the study of the process of receiving or giving systematic instruction, especially in educational organizations like a school or university. Our collection contributes to the understanding of the theory and practice of teaching from elementary to graduate levels. The education collection includes literature and materials that prepare students and faculty to research in and learn the necessary principles, practice and theory for education related to current research and learning as well as for future professional careers. It includes but is not limited to books and collections related to all aspects of educational endeavors.

## Degree Programs and Collecting Levels

- BS in Special Education: Teaching Level
- MS in Special Education: Research Level
- MEd in Educational Leadership: Research Level
- EdD in Educational Leadership: Research Level
- PhD in Eduational Inquiry, Measurement and Evaluation: Research Level
- MA in Instructional Psychology and Technology: Research Level
- PhD in Instructional Psychology and Technology: Research Level
- BS in Elementary Education: Teaching Level
- BS in Secondary Education (Departmental Emphasis in Fine Arts and Communications; Biology and Agriculture; Physical and Mathematical Sciences; Life Sciences; Humanities; Family, Home, and Social Sciences; Engineering and Technology): Teaching Level
- BS in Early Childhood Education: Teaching Level
- BS in Physical Education – Teacher Education: Teaching Level
- MA in Teacher Education: Research Level

## Research Interests

Some of the areas of interest for Education teaching and research in recent decades have included topics related to teacher learning including professional development, appropriate instructional practice, methods of teaching, multicultural education, educational measurement, educational leadership, law and policy, content area literacy, arts integration, disciplinary literacy, democracy in education, curriculum, pedagogy, accreditation, bilingualism, ethnic identity, new literacy, research methods, equity, dual language education, early childhood education, and technology integration.

## Departments/<wbr>Disciplines/<wbr>Programs/<wbr>Subject Areas

The discipline of education is reflected in the interests of the following departments and programs:

- Department of Teacher Education, David O. McKay School
- Department of Instructional Psychology and Technology, David O. McKay School
- Department of Counseling Psychology and Special Education, David O. McKay School
- Department of Educational Leadership, David O. McKay School
- Educator Preparation Program (includes the McKay School Departments and seven additional colleges, comprising 26 departments that prepare undergraduate secondary education teaching majors and minors)
- Center for the Study of Teacher Education and Schooling
- BYU-Public School Partnership

## Formats Collected

The library seeks to support research and teaching through targeted acquisitions, both of new and retrospective materials. Relevance and potential use for teaching and/or research are paramount, and a further factor is the quality of scholarship and presentation. Books and articles of all varieties are to be considered for acquisition in this collection, including audio, manuals, biographies, compilations, video, databases, periodicals, reference materials, e-books, and other e-formats with a particular emphasis on research-recommended or research-essential resources. Supplementary and basic-recommended books will be considered as well, based on content value. While print resources are preferred, content, access, and use needs will be considered as needed for e-formats as a preferred acquisition model.

### Languages Collected

Materials collected are primarily in English, but also include major European languages such as Italian, French, German, Spanish, and Portuguese reflecting seminal scholarship in subjects of interest. Limited acquisitions are made in additional languages, unless the publication has a unique value to the collection.

### Chronological and Geographical Focus

Current material is primarily emphasized, with earlier or out-of-print materials collected to replace damaged or lost copies of significant works; in response to faculty or students requests; or to fill in a gap in existing collections. The collections focus on the United States but reflect an international scope as necessary to comment on and support understanding of educational organizations. All geographical areas included as topics as research demands.

## Specialized Collections

In addition to the teaching and research education collections, the library also collects in specialized areas designed to help support and engage students with professional resources.

- Curriculum Collection: This collection consists of elementary and secondary textbooks and curriculum materials from various publishers covering many subjects. This collection is designed to assist pre-service teachers in their preparations. This collection is self-sustaining as items are sent though the Utah State Department of Education Repository program. No items are purchased for this collection directly.
- Juvenile Collection: This collection consists of works aimed at a juvenile audience from various publishers covering many subjects. This collection is outlined in a separate collection development statement.

## Subject Librarian Annual Collection Reports

### 2017
In addition to fulfilling the regular duties of collection development including: reviewing books in book repair; accepting and rejecting gifts; reviewing price increases for journals and databases; submitting orders for faculty and student requests for books; reviewing slips and budget reports; basic weeding and collection assessment; and other duties I also engaged in the following specific activities in 2017:

- Made and submitted ranked lists for Journal Cancelation Project, which were happily not needed when this project was able to be resolved though funding sources.
- Met with and held discussions on collection weeding and reduction issues with various groups including the Subject Librarians Group and the Humanities Department
- Supported students who gathered data on potential collection sampling methods to determine collection reductions then I assessed the data to see what might be some numbers indicative of what could be removed from the education collections.  
- Began a weeding project by tasking students to collect data and then looking at the spreadsheets for potential collection withdraws for all books in the education collections with 1960 publication dates.
- Worked with faculty to get an upgraded print and digital subscription to a journal: Teaching Children Mathematics
- Got training and began using Greenglass for full collection assessment.


### 2016

- 254 items were purchased through approval plans and title standing order
- 26 items were purchased though firm order.
- 29 items were purchased though Demand Driven Acquisitions
- Review of journal needs with Department faculty to determine potentials for journal cancelation and retention.

### 2015

- 294 items were purchased through approval plans and title standing order
- 20 items were purchased though firm order.
- 110 Demand Driven Acquisitions in &quot;L&quot; classification numbers were triggered and purchased.
- Review of all the education books in the locked case. Most were damaged and needed repair so they could be returned to stacks, the remainder were outdated and withdrawn.
