---
fund: 34313
fund-name: Chemical Engineering
file-name: 34313 Chemical Engineering.docx
tags:
 - Greg Nelson
---

## Overview

The library seeks to support teaching and research in Chemical Engineering at the Teaching level.

## About the Department

The undergraduate program in Chemical Engineering prepares students for a variety of careers within industry, such as the biomedical, petroleum and chemical industries. Undergraduates in Chemical Engineering rarely use the resources of the library due to the very few research assignments in their coursework. Undergraduates fulfill their Advanced Writing requirement by taking ENG 316, Technical Writing.

The graduate program in Chemical Engineering offers a Master&#39;s of Science and Doctor of Philosophy degree. Students are trained to be leaders in all areas of Chemical Engineering with the ability of effectively apply fundamental chemical and engineering principles to new problems. Of necessity there is required coursework, but the programs are primarily research-oriented. A written thesis is required for all Master&#39;s students and a written dissertation is required for all doctoral students.

DIPPR® Project 801- DIPPR (Design Institute for Physical Properties) is a source of critically evaluated thermophysical and environmental property data. Students at BYU, primarily undergraduates, search the available literature for predefined chemical properties and then verify those properties under standard conditions. The DIPPR lab is a heavy user of select library databases and print reference resources.

## Formats

Without question, Chemical Engineering faculty and students use online databases and journal articles. Online journal article access is available through publisher packages, database subscriptions, and individual title management. Books are purchased mainly via the YBP approval plan. Three to four times a year faculty are provided with a list of new books from YBP slips and queried for firm order requests; very few firm order purchases are made without faculty request. Circulation rates are quite low for monographs. E-books are purchased where possible, to increase accessibility and use. The DIPPR lab uses the library&#39;s print reference section heavily.

## Degree Programs and Collecting Levels

- Bachelor of Science, Chemical Engineering: Teaching Level
- Master of Science, Chemical Engineering: Teaching Level
- Doctor of Philosophy, Chemical Engineering: Teaching Level

## Research Interests

- Structure/function of heterogeneous catalysts
- Plasma reaction engineering
- Coal gasification
- Carbon dioxide capture and storage
- Sustainable energy research
- Coal combustion
- Cell-free synthetic biology
- Biocatalysts
- Vaccine development
- Tissue engineering
- Regenerative medicine
- Combustion
- Pyrolysis of coal and low-grade fuels
- Electrochemical Engineering
- Modeling and optimization of dynamic systems
- DNA Hybridization on Surfaces
- Protein-Surface Interactions
- Folding Cooperativity with Multiple Proteins
- Biomaterials
- Biological interactions with nitric oxide
- Computational modeling and simulation of turbulent reacting flows
- Nuclear reactor design
- Nuclear safety
- Nuclear system modeling
- Polymeric biomedical materials and drug delivery
- Ultrasonic enhanced drug delivery
- Modeling and experimental work to optimize batteries, fuel cells, and electrodeposition
- Thermophysical property measurement and correlation
- Environmental engineering
- Process design

## Subject Librarian Annual Collection Reports

### 2018

- The major collection development activity for 2017-2018 was a full-scale evaluation of the entire print Science and Engineering collection, excluding reference, quarto and folio materials. A realignment and reallocation of space in the south end of the second floor required the librarians of the Science and Engineering department to complete this project, which they did on time. The department as a whole proposed for withdrawal or transfer to AuxStor approximately 240,000 individual items from the collection including individual analyzed and nonanalyzed serials. I selected 43,826 items for withdrawal or transfer to AuxStor by evaluating 570 out of 2,654 single facing units in this project and spent 314.5 hours completing these responsibilities and assisting other librarians to complete the project on time. This was a significant effort that was not without a loss of opportunity cost. The post-project collection now occupies approximately 40% of the space that was occupied prior to this collection review. I was the primary driver and tester for the development of the modified ScholarSearch, Virtual Review Shelf, that allows nonstudent employees of BYU to provide feedback on materials slated for withdrawal. Many thanks to Brian Rennick, Curtis Thacker, and Charles Draper for their work on developing the software and implementing the department’s suggestions on this tool.
 - I completed on time the review of individually subscribed journals and the AuxStorSer collection review.
 - In 2017 I made two major purchases and contributed to an evidence based eBooks program. The first major addition was the acquisition of the Chemical and Engineering News (C&EN) Archive at a 15% discount (savings to the University of $2,292) and a waiver of the annual maintenance fee of $370 when we renewed the American Chemical Society Web Editions, All Publications package. I secured the funding from the CMDC semi-annual resources call.
 - The second major addition was the purchase of the American Chemical Society Symposium Series eBook Archive. This purchase resulted in a 35% discount on the 2015-2018 front list and a 10% discount on the 1949-2014 Archive. This will provide more than 1,100 eBooks to the Symposium series and increase accessibility and use of this collection. I used 2017 end of year money from the consolidated budget for those subjects I have stewardship over as well as from the General Science and Science Reference budgets in consultation with the Science & Engineering Department. I also used a significant portion of the available Francis Broadbent Endowment.
 - I utilized some of the funds allocated for collection development in addition to the typical monographic purchases. The library participates in a Wiley Evidence Based eBooks program from which I contributed $18,872 for subjects that met the use criteria for obtaining perpetual access. Infotherm, a Wiley database, was discontinued and I was returned the stewardship for the $3,000 used for that subscription. I used $482 of those cancellation funds to pay for increase in the AOCS Methods database because its annual increase was over the library mandated 4%. Keeping the AOCS Methods database will continue to provide access primarily to the Department of Nutrition, Dietetics and Food Science. With the passing of Peter Zuber, I have also taken responsibility for the collection development of the Science Reference and General Science budgets.

### 2016

#### Cancellation project

Evaluate the usage of all the journals under the fund codes of all four of my liaison departments and propose cancellations to free up funds to acquire journals that better align with educational and research priorities of the university. 

I successfully completed this goal with help from the HBLL Serials Department, especially Leila Kramer, Rebecca Boughan, and Kimberly Ha’o. I secured a list of those journals covered by the budget codes for all four of my liaison departments, limited the list to those journals that were not tied up in a package deal and that could be cancelled. Usage numbers for each journal for the past four years was obtained from Rebecca Boughan. I organized the list from most to least used and together with my suggested cancellations, emailed each faculty member in my liaison departments, requesting their feedback. This was a highly successful project and I received productive feedback from the faculty. We cancelled the following: 

| **Department**                        | **# of titles** | **Cancellation funds** |
|---------------------------------------|-----------------|------------------------|
| Chemistry and Biochemistry            | 2               | $3,266.00              |
| Chemical Engineering                  | 2               | $557.05                |
| Microbiology and Molecular Biology    | 6               | $12,058.55             |
| Nutrition, Dietetics and Food Science | 3               | $827.00                |
|---------------------------------------|-----------------|------------------------|
| **TOTAL**                             | **13**          | **$16,708.60**         |

Each department was assured that the cancellation funds would be used to purchase access to journal materials that would support the department’s research and curricular needs. Negotiation of these materials was put on hold while the library navigated and continues to navigate the Journal Retention and Cancellation project as it would seem disingenuous to inquire about new purchases of journals while asking at the same time what journals we should dramatically cut due to the end of our package deals.

#### Journal Retention and Cancellation Project

A budgetary crisis involving the multi-year contracts with major journal publishers has motivated the library to undertake a full scale evaluation of its entire journal collection in each collection area. This evaluation will result in a major cancellation of journals from Springer and Sage (2018), Wiley (2019) and Elsevier (2020). These cancellations will most likely reduce access to journals from these publishers by 88-92%. To use the resulting cancellation funds as effectively as possible, each librarian was asked to work with an appointed representative from each academic department on campus to identify a list of each faculty member’s essential and second tier journals. I met with each departmental representative individually to outline the scope of the issue and presented a timeline to have the faculty lists turned into the library. I have answered concerns and questions as the process has proceeded in the second half of 2016. 

The successful completion of this phase of the project was primarily due to the diligence and work of each departmental representative. I also recognize the excellent work of Jared Howland, Rebecca Boughan and the Library Information System’s team. The department representatives received feedback from most of their faculty members: Chemistry & Biochemistry (20/36, 56%), Chemical Engineering (17/17, 100%), Microbiology and Molecular Biology (17/19, 89%), and Nutrition, Dietetics & Food Science (13/18, 72%). All but one department met their goal of also providing a prioritized departmental list by the end of the year. This project will continue on through 2017 with a focus on the Springer and Sage titles, but will continue when the other journal package deals expire unless an adequate budget solution is reached.

#### ESDU Collection

I worked with Neil Giles (Chemical Engineering) to secure 40 ESDU binders containing recommended values for the physical properties of a large number of chemical substances from Constantine Tsonopoulos, a member of the (ESDU) Physical Properties Committee. The binders occupy slightly more than 5 linear feet on the bookshelf. Angie Workman, Rebecca Schroeder and James Fairbourne greatly helped the acquisition, processing and repair of these volumes. They will be a valuable resource to the students and faculty, especially in the Department of Chemical Engineering.

### 2015

- **Infotherm database.** Secured funding for the license of this database of thermodynamic data.
- **JoVE evaluation**. Evaluated the use of the Journal of Visualized Experiments (JoVE) and potential need for acquiring or cancelling sections.
