---
fund: 34135
fund-name: Asian Area Studies
file-name: 34135 Asian Area Studies.docx
tags:
 - Gail King
---

## Overview

The library seeks to support teaching and research in Asian area studies. In the context of BYU these are East Asian area studies: China, Japan, and Korea. Support for the small Southeast Asian Studies instructional program is basic; support for South Asian and Central Asian area studies is minimal. The Asian Area Studies 34135 fund is used to purchase and provide access to materials in primarily English, with selected important research materials in other Western languages, to support research and instruction in Asian area studies. Language and literature materials written in any language, including all Western languages and Chinese, Japanese, and Korean, are paid for by the Asian Languages fund [34235]({{ site.github.url }}/policies/34235). (The [Asian language fund 34235]({{ site.github.url }}/policies/34235) also pays for all materials in all subjects in Chinese, Japanese, and Korean that are housed in the Asian Collection.)

Increasingly, area studies are cross-disciplinary. This trend is visible in faculty research interests and in the focus of student research projects and mentored learning projects completed under the direction of faculty. These developments and trends in the field must inform our collection acquisition and collection development planning and decisions. Instructional materials are acquired based on courses taught at BYU; research materials are acquired based on specific research interests of faculty members.

 The following guidelines for acquisition and collection emphases have been developed in collaboration with the Asian Studies faculty.

## Chinese Studies

### A. Chinese History—Instruction level
1. Prehistory and archaeological studies
2. Historical periods
    - Shang through Han
    - Three Kingdoms through Tang
    - Ming through 21<sup>st</sup> century

Emphasize aspects of culture, society, and governmental organization

Faculty research interest materials acquired only by special request

### B. Chinese Government & Politics—Instruction level
1. Contemporary Chinese politics
2. China border relations
3. Minority groups in China

Faculty research interest materials acquired only by special request

## Japanese Studies

### A. Japanese History—Instruction level
1. Imperial army
2. Samurai culture
3. Colonization of Hokkaido
4. Primary sources on the Meiji Restoration
5. Youth groups in Taisho era and World War II
    - Military-society relations pre-1945
    - Self Defense Forces

Faculty research interest materials acquired only by special request

### B. Japanese religion—Instruction level
- Shinto and Japanese culture
- Christianity in Japan

Faculty research interest materials acquired only by special request

### C. Japanese culture and art—Instruction level
1. Nara-e
2. Japanese politics and government
3. Elections and personalities in elections

Faculty research interest materials acquired only by special request

## Korean Studies—Instruction level
1. Korean History
2. Korean culture, drama, dance, music
3. Korean Politics -- and North Korea
4. Korean philosophy and religion
5. Christianity in Korea
6. Korean business and economics

## Format:
1. Buy whatever format is best for faculty and students to use.
2. In journals, prefer electronic subscriptions.
3. Documentary and feature films –
    - Prefer those subtitled in English.
    - Prefer DVD.

## Type of publication:
1. Prefer primary or source materials.
    - Conform to faculty research interests and instructional program.
    - Buy indices and specialized dictionaries.
2. Buy secondary sources or books of criticism only as faculty requests.

## Departments/<wbr>Disciplines/<wbr>Programs/<wbr>Subject Areas

The Asian Studies program reflects the interests and teaching contributions of members of the following departments and programs:

- Asian and Near Eastern (Chinese, Japanese, and Korean)
- History Department
- Political Science
- Geography
- Asian Studies program through the Kennedy Center for International Studies

## Subject Librarian Annual Collection Reports

## Subject Librarian Annual Collection Reports

### 2018

- **Notable acquisitions**
    - **Chinese**
      - **Bian jiang bian wu zi liao wen xian chu bian: xi nan bian wu** 边疆边务资料文献初编 : 西南边务 [Border office materials documents, first series: southwest office] This collection of materials was requested by Professor Diana Duan, BYU professor of Chinese History in the History Department, to support her research on border regions and peoples of China. Cost: $1235, acquired through China Classics, our regular dealer for Chinese materials.
    - **Japanese**
      - **Henshi gafu,** **辺氏画譜**** ,** 1804, a book in 5 volumes by Watanabe Gentai, a literati painter and scholar, was purchased at the request and recommendation of Professor Jack Stoneman to complement the other painting manuals in the Bruning Collection. The book is made up of mostly landscape paintings and influenced later literati painters. It was purchased from The Isseido Company in Tokyo for 200000 yen, about $1760, and has been cataloged for Rare. I was happy that the Asian Studies 34235 fund had remaining money toward the end of the year to allow us to purchase this title for Special Collections.
    - **Korean**
        - In May a number of materials in English about North Korea were donated to the library by Dr. Michael Quinones, a former US Foreign Service officer who was stationed in North Korea for nearly two decades. Some of the donation will go to Special Collections; I reviewed the English materials in the Gifts area in June. These are rarely seen English-language materials published in North Korea in the 1990s and will add much to our sources on this country.
        - Upon his retirement at the end of June, 2018, Dr. Mark Peterson, professor of Korean in the Asian and Near Eastern Languages Department, sent his personal collection of books in Korean and English on Korea to the library as a donation. I reviewed these materials in August, and cataloging has begun on those I selected. To date 65 books in Korean have been cataloged; I am not sure how many English titles have been cataloged.
    - **Thai and Vietnamese**
      - For many years our twenty or thirty old books in Thai have been on the shelves of the Asian Collection, few in number and not in the catalog, but checked out. It seemed to me that we could serve students of Thai better than this, and in October I received permission from Robert Murdoch to buy a limited number of new Thai books. I did so using a website that offered an English-language interface and working with Susanne Lay. I also bought a small number of Vietnamese books; instruction in Vietnamese, like Thai, is now offered at BYU through the third-year level. Both of these needed new location codes, Asian Thai and Asian Vietnamese. I worked with Jeffery Hill to get this taken care of, and also to get the programming for labels for books in these two languages accomplished. The Thai books (20 in all) have been received, cataloged, and labeled and are now on the shelves in the Asian Collection. In the meantime I took about 40 books in Thai, donated a number of years ago, to Gifts to be cataloged. The Vietnamese books should be ready in January.
- **New faculty**
    - Richard McBride, a new faculty member in the Asian and Near Eastern Languages Department, replaced Mark Peterson, who retired in June, 2018. I met with Dr. McBride in August. He is a graduate of BYU and I have watched his career and noted his articles and books on Korean Buddhism, his main field of research, for a number of years.
- **Liaison actions pertaining to collections**
    - David Day spoke with me in January about the research collection of his father-in-law, a Japanese expert on Buddhism, who passed away last year. The family would like to donate the collection to a library that could use it; they would pay for shipping it to the university. I thought about this offer and consulted the Japanese Studies faculty. In the end it seemed to me not to be a collection that would be best used here. I emailed David Day in August about this decision.
    - Professor Masakazu Watabe, who will retire in August, 2019, told me in October of his desire to donate all of his teaching and research books to the library. Knowing about the Gifts policy and the necessity for reviewing donations before they come to the library, I consulted with Robert Murdoch and Jared Howland about this donation. I proposed to them that I go through Dr. Watabe&#39;s books while they are still in his office so that only books the library does not own and wants are brought over as donations. They approved, and I made arrangements to inventory and review Dr. Watabe&#39;s books in his office every Friday afternoon after he leaves for the day, about 2 or 2:30. I began this project in late October and am making slow but steady progress.
- **Other**
    - Review of Asian Studies-related books
        - In June and early July I reviewed all of the Asian books in the D-DU and PK-PL call number ranges having to do with Asian countries for which I am responsible (leaving out the Mideast) and designated about 16% for Auxiliary Storage and many fewer for deselection. After all of the Science books have been taken care of, Auxiliary Storage will pull the books I marked for AuxStor and deselection. I felt that it was my responsibility to complete this review before I retire, and summer was the best time. I appreciate very much Emily Hreha&#39;s understand and support of my desire to get this job done summer 2018.
        - As a part of the library-wide project to review all journal subscriptions not part of a package subscription, I consulted with Asian Studies faculty members and was able with their good-hearted cooperation to designate enough journals for cancellation to make up the necessary percentage expected of all subject budgets.

### 2017
- **Notable acquisitions**
    - SO SHISEKI GAFU. 宋紫石画譜  [So Shiseki's picture album]
        - Edo, Suharaya Shirôemon; Suharaya Môhei, Meiwa 2 [1765]. Recommended by Jack Stoneman to add to our Special Collections materials in Japanese on birds, one of the strengths of our Bruning Collection Japanese rare materials.  I was happy that the Asian Studies 34235 fund had remaining money toward the end of the year to allow us to purchase this set for Special Collections.

- **New faculty**
    - None

- **Liaison actions pertaining to collections**
    - In September I was notified that the Chinese dictionary of Oxford Language Dictionaries Online was due for renewal at a price of $1,132, a 31% increase over the previous year.  Usage was 115 for 2016, $9.84 per use, which is reasonable, but it's still a very expensive dictionary.  Hence I concluded we shouldn't encourage the publisher to believe they can just raise the price as they please.  We cancelled.  
    - I was notified in October that the renewal subscription for Duxiu, the Chinese database that we have subscribed to through a GWLA consortial arrangement, would increase in price by 11% for the coming year.  Before agreeing to this increase, I investigated usage and consulted faculty members.  Usage is low and faculty uniformly do not use it.  Duxiu is set up to retrieve full-text of articles through a second index, China National Knowledge Index, which we do not subscribe to.  So even the few times faculty members searched Duxiu for articles on a topic, they were unable to secure full-text directly but had to go through Interlibrary Loan.  There is nothing wrong with using ILL, but the subscription price for Duxiu is too high just for an index.  Hence I declined to renew our subscription and relayed the reasons to the librarian who is our GWLA contact with Duxiu. 
    - In the fall I received funding to hire two students to divide the books on the Japanese and Korean Reading Shelves by level of reading difficulty: Beginning, Intermediate, and Advanced.  I advertised the positions, trained the students, and they set to work.  As I anticipated, both students finished in December.  I hope that this will allow the books to be of greater help to students of Japanese and Korean.  The books will be cataloged with a Japanese Reading plus level location code so that they can be found in the catalog and on the shelves.

### 2016

- **Notable acquisitions**
    - Sorimachi Shigeo rare book catalogs – online
        - Acquired at the request of Jack Stoneman to support the investigation of our Bruning Collection Japanese rare materials and the preparation of a catalog of our holdings

- **New faculty**

    - Diana Duan, Modern Chinese History, specializing in border areas
    - Jonathan Felt, pre-Modern China, research interest E & W empires
    - Two temporary appointments in Japanese language replacing Paul Warnick while he is serving as President of the Tokyo Mission

- **Liaison actions pertaining to collections**
    - Ordered books in English and Japanese requested by Van Gessel to support the learning objectives and research projects of his Japanese Senior Seminar
    - Set up Japanese and Korean Reading Shelves; sent emails notifying faculty members and encouraged them to have their students use the Reading Shelves
    - Reviewed Japanese language journals offered to the library by Paul Warnick and accepted issues of two journals, Nihongo 日 本 語 1988-2004 and Nihongo Janaru日本語ジャーナル1988-1994, which gave us extensive back runs of these two titles.

- **Auxiliary Storage recommendations**
    - Three large serial sets from Asian Reference, _Chinese National Bibliography_ Asian Reference DS 799 .C44x, 55 volumes; _Japanese Periodical Index_ Asian Reference AI 19 .J3 J38, 34 volumes; and _Current Contents of Academic Journals in Japan_ Asian Reference AI 19 .J3 C85, 29 volumes, all superseded and never used
    - Bound issues of the 1930s Chinese newpaper _Wei Manzhou Guo zheng fu Gong bao_ 伪滿洲國政府公報 [Government Bulletin of the Puppet (state of) Manchukuo] Asian Chinese DS 783.7 .W39x 1990, 120 volumes

- **Notable cancellations**
    - Chinese and Korean print newspaper subscriptions, cancelled after faculty consultation
    - The Chinese journal Zhonghua Minguo guo ji guan xi yan jiu中華民國國際關係硏究 (_Issues and Studies_) because of a 600% increase in subscription price

### 2015

- **Notable acquisitions**
    - Cliff Barton books on Vietnam
    - _Oxford Bibliographies Online: Chinese Studies_
- **Program changes, new courses**
    - A new SE Asian politics course taught by Joel Selway
- **Liaison actions pertaining to collections**
    - Informal survey regarding collecting priorities
    - Emails encouraging faculty members to have their students use the Chinese Reading Shelves

### 2014

- **Liaison actions pertaining to collections**
    - Visited all faculty members and discussed research interests
    - Emails informing faculty of important new primary source databases
