---
fund: 34228
fund-name: Comparative Literature
file-name: 34228 Comparative Literature.docx
tags:
 - Robert Means
---

## Overview

The Comparative Literature program at BYU has flourished for many years, with the HBLL's corresponding collection development program for Comparative Literature providing materials for research and instruction. During the Spring of 2015, the Department of Humanities, Classics, and Comparative Literature (HCCL) – est. in 1978 – changed to the Department of Comparative Arts and Letters (CAL), and included both the Comparative Literature (BA) and Comparative Studies (MA) programs (the former focusing mainly on creative writings, and the latter allowing for more comparison with the other fine arts). The library seeks to support teaching and research in Comparative Literature and Comparative Studies through the Bachelor's and Master's levels.

In recent decades, new research interests and courses of study have included the topics related to transnational phenomena as literary or cultural periods and trends (Renaissance, Romanticism, Realism, Modernism, Post-colonialism); genres and modes of discourse (tragedy, the novel, the sonnet, the grotesque, stream of consciousness); and theoretical perspective exploring such topics as poetics, narratology, fictional worlds, literary semantics, representation, language and epistemology, interpretation of texts, and history of literary theory. The library seeks to support research and teaching in Comparative Literature and Comparative Studies through targeted acquisitions, both of new materials and retrospectively.

## Degree Programs and Collecting Levels

- Bachelor of Arts, Comparative Literature: Teaching Level
- Master of Arts, Comparative Studies: Teaching Level

## Number of Degrees Awarded

|| **Bachelor's**<br/>(Comparative Literature) | **Master's**<br/>(Comparative Studies) | **TOTAL** |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **2014-2015** | 2 | 6 | 8 |
| **2013-2014** | 2 | 7 | 9 |
| **2012-2013** | 4 | 8 | 12 |
| **2011-2012** | 4 | 4 | 8 |

## Student Enrollment

| | **Undergraduate**<br/>(Comparative Literature) | **Graduate**<br/>(Comparative Studies)| **TOTAL** |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **2014-2015** | 9 | 7 | 16 |
| **2013-2014** | 7 | 9 | 16 |
| **2012-2013** | 10 | 9 | 19 |
| **2011-2012** | 12 | 6 | 18 |

## Courses Taught (Comparative Literature)

(individual courses offered, this does not reflect multiple sections of each individual course)

| | **Winter** | **Spring** | **Summer** | **Fall** | **TOTAL** |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **2015** | no data (avg. 10) | no data (avg. 7) | 5 | 10 | 32 |
| **2014** | 10 | 7 | no data (avg. 5) | 11 | 33 |
| **2013** | 10 | 7 | no data (avg. 5) | 10 | 32 |
| **2012** | 10 | 7 | 5 | 10 | 32 |

## Courses Taught (Comparative Studies)

(individual courses offered, this does not reflect multiple sections of each individual course)

| | **Winter** | **Spring** | **Summer** | **Fall** | **TOTAL** |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **2015** | no data (avg. 4) | no data (avg. 2) | 2 | 5 | 13 |
| **2014** | 4 | 2 | no data (avg. 2) | 4 | 12 |
| **2013** | 4 | 2 | no data (avg. 2) | 4 | 12 |
| **2012** | 4 | 2 | 2 | 4 | 12 |

## Faculty (Comparative Literature & Comparative Studies)

- 13 full-time (all PhD's)
- ? adjunct (? PhD's)

## Research Interests

The Comparative Literature faculty specialize in Romanticism, theory, interpretation and criticism of literature, interactions of literature with adjacent fields like visual and material culture, film, psychology, law, anthropology, and philosophy.

## Related Departments/<wbr>Disciplines/<wbr>Programs/<wbr>Subject Areas

The Comparative Literature collection provides background and context to inform and enrich the interests of many other departments and programs, including:

- Department of Anthropology
- Department of Communication
- Department of Comparative Arts & Letters
- Department of English
- Department of Fine Art
- Department of History
- Department of Linguistics and English Language
- Department of Psychology
- Department of Theater and Media Arts

And because Comparative Literature has cross-disciplinary implications, this collection also offers support for research and teaching in other Western European language and literature departments (*e.g.*, French, Italian, Spanish and Portuguese, German) as well as area studies such as African Studies, Asian Studies, etc.

## Subject Librarian Annual Collection Reports

### 2017
Growing amount of materials I’m asked to order that best fit this category, could use more money.

**New Resources.** During 2017, I sponsored (or co-sponsored) many important electronic databases / resources to support teaching and research in my subject areas (often working with teaching faculty who had specifically requested them for their courses and research).
 
New electronic resources I was involved in acquiring during Winter semester 2017, included:
 
- [American WWI Military Camp Newspapers](http://dbs.lib.byu.edu/america-ww1-camp), with details of camp personnel, places, training and events, as well as non-war related advertisements, poetry, short stories, memoirs, jokes, and cartoons. Photographs and sketches give a glimpse of life in the various camps, on the home front, and at the battlefront. (I feel this resource is especially important for the HBLL / BYU to have for the upcoming 100th anniversary of the Armistice of WWI (2018).)
- [Shakespeare in Performance](http://dbs.lib.byu.edu/shakespeare-performance), contains rare and unique prompt books from the world-famous Folger Shakespeare Library in Washington, DC. The prompt books tell the stories of key performances as they were put on in theatres throughout Great Britain, the United States and elsewhere, between the seventeenth and twentieth centuries. Handwritten manuscripts and printed typescripts contain personal notes, sketches, and cues for lighting and music. (This will be useful for professors and students of both English literature and theatre.)
 
New electronic resources I was involved in acquiring during Fall semester 2017, included:
 
- [Brill’s Digital Library of World War I](http://dbs.lib.byu.edu/brill-wwi), an online resource that contains over 700 encyclopedia entries plus 250 peer-reviewed articles of transnational and global historical perspectives on significant topics of World War I. (Another important resource for the HBLL / BYU to have for 2018, as it helps to succinctly put the War in context and perspective, and helps to manage further and more in-depth research into the War.)
 
**New Serials Subscriptions.** During 2017, I offered serials cancellation money to my teaching faculty to start subscriptions for requested journals we lacked (and / or to purchase needed back issues, restart cancelled subscriptions, etc.). During 2017, no new individual serial subscriptions were started; however, several existing serials went up dramatically in price, and had to be rescued with a transfusion of addition funds, including:
 
- Milton Studies.
- Restoration Studies in English Literary Culture, 1600-1700.
 
In Addition (to my stated CD goals for 2017), my CD activities during 2017 also included:
 
- (This might be better listed under “Citizenship” (and I will list it there as well), but I’ll also mention here that) I served as a member of Library Collections Forum (LCF) Planning / Steering Committee during Winter Semester 2017, and as Chair of the LCF Planning / Steering Committee during Fall Semester 2017.
- I attended the HBLL Collection Development Retreat on September 7<sup>th</sup>-8<sup>th</sup>, where we discussed CD trends, AuxStor procedures, etc., and were introduced to an online “suite” of CD tools (in progress), and reviewed our Collection Development policies that we revised and updated the previous year (2016).

### 2016
NO REPORT

### 2015

**Electronic Resources.** Of the many electronic resources added during 2015 in my subject areas, those pertaining to Comparative Literature and Comparative Studies included:

- _Oxford Handbooks Online: Linguistics_. Review essays by leading linguistics scholars that evaluate the current thinking in the field, and make an original arguments about future directions. Includes monthly updates.
- _Cambridge Edition of the Works of Ben Jonson Online_. The texts of all of Ben Jonson's plays, masques, poems, letters, and criticism in an interactive digital format.
- _Drama Online_. Complete digital library of the most studied and performed plays from the last 2,500 years. Scholarly notes, annotated texts, contextual information, synopsis, biographical entries, and material on acting, directing, and lighting.
- _Sunday Times Digital Archive_ (1822-2006). Thoughtful analysis and commentary on the week's news and society at large (since 1822). "Murder, theatre, sport and politics, all collide in these pages in an abundance of glorious narrative detail" (I wish I'd been the one to write that).
- _Crime, Punishment, and Popular Culture_ (1790-1920). Broad history of crime in the long 19<sup>th</sup> century derived from French, German, Spanish, Australian, British and U.S. sources. The collection includes trial transcripts, court proceedings, police and forensic documents, photographs, true crime literature and detective novels, and newspaper accounts. (I'm also using "copy" here, but without the quotes.)
- _Oxford Bibliography: British and Irish Literature_. (Here's another description I wish I'd have written myself) " . . . offer[s] a trustworthy pathway through the thicket of information overload." Editor in Chief, Andrew Hadfield, professor of English at the University of Sussex.
- _Oxford Bibliography: Victorian Literature_. Editor in Chief, Juliet John, Hildred Carlile Chair of English Literature at Royal Holloway, University of London, and previously Professor of Victorian Literature and Culture at the University of Liverpool.

**New Serials Subscriptions.** During 2015, I offered serials cancellation money to my teaching faculty to start subscriptions for requested journals we lacked (and / or to purchase needed back issues, restart cancelled subscriptions, etc.). Those that support Comparative Literature and Comparative Studies included:

- _Current Issues in Language Planning._ Bill Eggington, Linguistics and English Language Department, requested the journal _Current Issues in Language Planning_; however, after we had a subscription, Bill and his students couldn't seem to find it in the HBLL homepage … working with the Serials Department and Virginia Watson, we got the journal to properly display throughout the Library homepage.
- _Milton Studies._ During Spring-Summer terms I worked with Jason Kerr, English Department, and our Serials Department, to restart our print subscription to _Milton Studies_ that had fallen through the cracks of a large electronic journal-package.
- _Literature Criticism Online (LCO)._ During 2015, we (that is, Mary Chapman) discovered that we were missing large numbers of volumes from our original print versions of the (10) criticism sets that comprise _LCO_: for example, _Shakespearean Criticism_; _Nineteenth Century Literature Criticism (NCLC)_; etc. The complete reason for this oversight would require the (re-)telling of a long, long story but, suffice it to say that (as part of the _LCO_ subscription) _Gale_ decided to cancel our print subscriptions to these sets, while we (Mary and I) were under the impression that we were to go on receiving them (as we did for a time). And as these sets are irregular(ly published) serials, we weren't alarmed when they didn't appear on a regular basis. That is, until we realized something was wrong, and that we had fallen behind. Since Mary and I agreed that _Shakespearean Criticism (SC)_ was the most important set of the (10) sets for use in Humanities Reference, I got a standing order re-started for it, and I used some funds that I had remaining at the end of the year (2015) to buy the back issues (around 25 volumes) of _SC_, and bring us up-to-date in that set. The other sets will have to wait, and possibly be filled in one set at a time, year by year.

**Collaboration on Science Fiction Titles for "Sampler."** During Fall semester 2015, I collaborated with Rebecca Boughan, who produced a list of (over 100) current science fiction titles needed for "Sampler." I funded the purchase from my "Fiction" budget, and after two years these volumes will move from Sampler into the general science fiction stacks collection in PZ 4.

**OUTREACH: English Department Reading Series (ERS).** I continued to work with the English Department to produce the weekly English Department Reading Series (now in its 12th+ year). This weekly event brings in creative writers (fiction writers, poets, essayists) from the BYU English Department, as well as from outside the University to read in the Library auditorium. Following the reading, an author reception and book-signing is held in the Special Collections classroom. Generally, attendance at the readings is over 120, an at the author reception and book signing, from 50-80. Also, one of the readings each semester is devoted to a student writing contest, wherein a student poet, essayist, and fiction writer is chosen to read at the weekly series. The weekly series has become so popular that several year ago it was "official-ized" into a for-credit course: ENGL 321R that has, typically, from 40-70 students enrolled each winter and fall semester.

### 2014

**Electronic Resources.** Of the many electronic resources added during 2014 in my subject areas, those pertaining to Comparative Literature and Comparative Studies included:

- _Dictionary of American Regional English_ (DARE). Focuses on the regional aspects of American English, documenting words, phrases, and pronunciations.
- _Partridge Slang Online_. The first authoritative slang dictionary online. Acknowledged to be the most authoritative and comprehensive dictionary of slang in the world. Contains over 60,000 entries, dating back to the 1600's.
- _Encyclopedia of Applied Linguistics_. Key areas in Linguistics, including Language Learning and Teaching, Bilingual and Multilingual Education, Assessment and Testing, Corpus Linguistics, Conversation Analysis, Discourse, Cognitive Second Language Acquisition, Language Policy and Planning, Literacy, and Technology and Language.
- _BBC Shakespeare Plays_. 37 Shakespeare plays performed by some of the most distinguished and recognized Shakespearean actors. Closed captioned, and chaptered by acts within each play. Able to stream to mobile devices.
- _Punch Magazine Archive_. The complete 1841 to 1992 run of the world's most celebrated magazine of humor and satire.
- _Travel Writing, Spectacle and World History_. Hundreds of accounts by women of their travels across the globe from the early 19<sup>th</sup> century to the late 20<sup>th</sup> century.
- _Jewish Life in America_. From the American Jewish Historical Society in New York, the history of Jewish communities in America from their first arrival in New York in 1654 up through 1954.
- _First World War: Visual Perspectives and Narratives_. Primary source material from the Imperial War Museum in London. Main themes include the role of women during the war, the Home Front and international perspectives.
- _American History from the Gilder Lehrman Collection_. American History from the earliest settlers in 1493 to the mid-twentieth century 1945.
- _American Consumer Culture: Market Research and American Business, 1935-1965._ A look at the American consumer boom of the mid-20<sup>th</sup> century through access to the complete market research reports of Ernest Dichter.
- _Popular Culture in Britain and America, 1950-1975._ Music, politics, fashion, and youth culture during the period 1950 to 1975. Includes printed and manuscript sources, visual material, ephemera and video clips.
- also, two small collections from Gale's _Archives Unbound_: the "Rastafari Collection" and "Mountain People: Life and Culture in Appalachia."

**ASSESSMENT: California Preservation Program (CALIPR).** During Winter semester 2014, I worked with Christina Thomas and Kohleen Reeder (of the Conversation Lab), under the direction of Scott Duvall, on a CALIPR assessment of the Lee Library's PZ 4 (Science Fiction) collection. The objective of the CALIPR assessment was to determine the best way to preserve and maintain this heavily-circulating collection. I gathered physical data on the collection (amount of shelving, number of volumes, etc.), we ran a software program that determined the survey sample we would take, and finally from the sample, a student and I entered data about the condition of each volume. From there, Christina and Kohleen took the sample of PZ 4 volumes for needed repair. This was the first time a CALIPR assessment had been conducted in the HBLL, and this "pilot" will provide insights into how to use CALIPR for future collection assessments.

**DISCOVERY: Library Collections Forums (LCF).** I participated (with other Lee Librarians) in two LCF's during 2014, highlighting and demonstrating databases and / or HBLL collections:

- "Resources For Studying WWI" on April 3<sup>rd</sup>
- "Graphic Novels" on November 6<sup>th</sup>

### 2013

**Electronic Resources.** Of the many electronic resources added during 2013 in my subject areas, those pertaining to Comparative Literature and Comparative Studies included:

- _Illustrated London News_ (1842-2003). The full-run of the world's first fully illustrated weekly newspaper.
- _International Women's Periodicals, 1786-1933: Social and Political Issues_.
- _19_<sup>th</sup> _Century U.K. Periodicals Series 1: New Readerships: Women's, Children's, Humor and Leisure/Sport_.
- _Women, War & Society 1914-1918_. A digital archive collected from the "Women at Work Collection" at the Imperial War Museum.
- _Queen Victoria Journals (1832-1901)_. For the first time, the entire 141 volumes (approx. 33,000 pages) from her first journal entry at 13-years old to her death in 1901.
- _World War I Trench Journals._ Primary source periodicals written by and for servicemen and women of all nations during the First World War.
- _First World War: Propaganda and Recruitment_. Posters, photographs, leaflets, etc.
- _Leeds Literary Manuscripts_. Complete facsimile images of 190 manuscripts of 17th and 18<sup>th</sup> century verse held in the Brotherton Collection at the University of Leeds.
- _John Johnson Collection of Printed Ephemera_. Items selected from the John Johnson Collection of Printed Ephemera, offering unique insights into the changing nature of everyday life in Britain in the 18<sup>th</sup>, 19<sup>th</sup>, and early 20<sup>th</sup> centuries.

**New Serials Subscriptions.** During 2013, I used serials cancellation money I'd amassed / earned to start subscriptions for requested journals we lacked (and / or to purchase needed back issues, restart cancelled subscriptions). Titles included:

- _Emblematica_
- _Religion in the Age of Enlightenment_
- _London Review of Books_
- and the oft-requested – and for some reason canceled (by someone outside our Humanities Department) – _Literary Market Place_
- and _International Literary Market Place_, both needed items in our reference collection
- _The Normal School_
- _Fourth Genre_
- and _Creative Nonfiction_

### 2012

**Electronic Resources.** Of the many electronic resources added during 2012 in my subject areas, those pertaining to Comparative Literature and Comparative Studies included:

- _London Low Life_
- the _Berg Literary Collection_ (famous Victorian Collection from NYPL)
- _World War I Personal Histories_
- _19_<sup>th</sup> _Century British Library Newspapers_ part II (we have part I) and _19_<sup>th</sup> _Century UK Periodicals_ part I
- _Feminism in Cuba, 1898-1958_
- _German Folklore and Popular Culture_
- _Orlando: Women's Writings in the British Isles From the Beginning to the Present_
- _Nineteenth Century Collections Online_ (NCCO)
- _Defining Gender, 1450-1910_
- _Eighteenth-Century Journals Portal, Section V:_ _The Lady's Magazine_ _and Other Titles, 1712-1835_
- _Literary Encyclopedia_
- _The Lily: A Temperance and Feminist Newspaper, 1849-1856_
- _Victorian Popular Culture IV: Moving Pictures, Optical Entertainments and the Advent of Cinema_
- and from of _Gale_'s "Archives Unbound":
    - _Papers of Amiri Bakara, Poet Laureate of the Black Power Movement_
    - _Psychological Warfare and Propaganda in World War II_
- and, as part of the "_Gale_ Virtual Reference Library" I purchased:
    - _Twenty-First Century Drama: The First Decade_
    - _The Literature of Autobiographical Narrative_
    - _The Literature of Propaganda_
    - _The Manifesto in Literature_
- **Emily Dickinson Lexicon / Webster's 1844 ed.** During Summer term and Fall semester 2012, I worked with Cynthia Hallen, English Language & Linguistics, and Brian Rennick, HBLL Web Programming & Design Manager, to propose and arrange for the hosting of Professor Hallen's _Emily Dickinson Lexicon_ ([http://edl.byu.edu/](http://edl.byu.edu/)) and _Webster's 1844 ed._ ([http://edl.byu.edu/webster](http://edl.byu.edu/webster)) databases at the HBLL.
- **DISCOVERY: Collaboration on Comparative Literature subject guide.** During 2012, I worked with Mary Ann Maxwell (Bob's wife, a PhD in Comparative Literature, and an adjunct faculty in BYU Comparative Literature program), during her internship with the Humanities Department, to revise and publish a new-and-(much)improved "Comparative Literature" _LibGuides_ subject page.
