---
fund: 34265
fund-name: Biology
tags:
 - Mike Goates
---

## Overview

The library seeks to develop collections in the biological sciences to support teaching and research in the Department of Biology. Due to the cross-disciplinary nature of the biological sciences, many of these materials are also used by students and researchers in other departments. As these collections support several undergraduate and graduate programs, information resources in the biological sciences are collected at the research level.

## Degree Programs and Collecting Level

- Bachelor of Science, Bioinformatics: Teaching Level
- Bachelor of Science, Biology: Teaching Level
- Bachelor of Science, Biological Science Education: Teaching Level
- Bachelor of Science, Conservation Biology: Teaching Level
- Master of Science, Biological Science Education: Research Level
- Master of Science, Biology: Research Level
- Doctor of Philosophy, Biology: Research Level.

## Research Interests

- Bioinformatics
- Biology education
- Botany
- Conservation biology
- Ecology
- Evolution
- Genetics
- Genomics
- Mycology
- Natural history
- Systematics
- Veterinary science
- Zoology

## Departments/<wbr>Disciplines/<wbr>Programs

The biological sciences collections reflect the interests of the following departments and programs:

- Biology
- Plant and Wildlife Sciences
- Physiology and Developmental Biology
- Microbiology and Molecular Biology
- Monte L. Bean Life Sciences Museum

## Formats Collected

### Periodicals

Electronic format is highly preferred for most journals and other periodicals. A substantial number of journal titles are acquired through large package deals, though others are maintained through individual subscriptions. In the event that a relevant periodical title is not available in electronic format, a print subscription may be acquired after careful consideration of likely faculty and student use.

### Monographs

When available, electronic books are generally preferred over print books. However, many relevant book titles in the biological sciences are only available in print format. In these instances, the library will continue to acquire these materials in print. Some highly pictorial works may be preferred in print due to higher image resolution.

### Reference materials

When available, dictionaries, encyclopedias, guidebooks, and other reference materials are preferred in electronic format, though these items will also be acquired in print, if necessary. As an exception, natural history field guides (birds, plants, etc.) will be purchased preferentially in print format to allow easier use in remote field locations.

### Audiovisual materials

Audiovisual materials will be acquired as requested by faculty to support learning objectives for specific courses in the biological sciences. These materials will be located in the library's Media Center and will be available for student and faculty checkout. When requested by faculty for class use, streaming licenses can be purchased for videos, if available and reasonably priced.

## Annual Collection Reports
### 2018
- **Notable acquisitions (collections, journals, databases)**
    - 338 monographs purchased
        - 134 items purchased through approval plans and title standing order
        - 184 items purchased through firm order
            - 11 items purchased through firm order using 34265
            - 173 items purchased through firm order using Charles Broadbent Endowment
        - 18 items were rented for short term loans
        - 2 items were purchased through demand driven acquisitions
    - Purchased the _Morgan Claypool Colloquium Digital Library of Life Sciences Collections 3 & 4_
        - 70 authoritative ebooks on a various life sciences topics
        - Already owned Collections 1 & 2
        - Collection 3: <https://www.morganclaypool.com/page/colloquium_three>
        - Collection 4: <https://www.morganclaypool.com/page/colloquium_four>
- **Print Monograph and Circulating Serials Evaluation Project**
    - The largest collection development activity in 2017 and 2018 involved the collection evaluation project for all print monographs and circulating serials. This project began in the fall of 2017 and continued throughout all of 2018 and into 2019. I evaluated print materials based on relevance to current research and teaching interests, publication date, the last circulation date (both check-outs and in-house uses), and the number of U.S. libraries with the same edition of this title. I also evaluated items based on historical value or interest to the university and local community. In general, I elected to keep items on the shelves that were published and/or had a last circulation date after 2002. I sent items to on-site auxiliary storage that did not meet the above publication or circulation criteria, but that were published before 1901 and/or were found in 15 or fewer U.S. libraries. Any items that did not meet the criteria for remaining on the circulating stacks or to be sent to auxiliary storage were slated for withdrawal from the library’s holdings. I reviewed those items in the withdraw category to determine if there were items of historical value or critical research/teaching interests before they were removed from the shelves. Between the start of the project on August 17, 2017 and when I completed my final review of the items slated for withdrawal on November 1, 2018, I spent a total of 293 hours evaluating the collections on 627 single facing units (all seven shelves on a 35-inch-wide bookcase) within my assigned areas. Since the completion of my evaluation portion of this project, I have communicated regularly with the faculty and staff in my assigned departments and assisted them in reviewing the materials proposed for withdrawal. All faculty and staff have until the end of January 2019 to review the items proposed for withdrawal and submit reconsideration requests for individual titles to remain in the library’s collections. After the faculty and staff review period, I will evaluate all reconsideration requests in my call number ranges and determine the appropriate course of action for these items. 
    - Below is a list of the approximate number of titles sent to auxiliary storage or withdrawn from the library in the call number ranges supported by the Biology Fund Code (note, these numbers represent individual titles/records––actual volume counts are higher):
        - GC – AuxStor = 20; Withdrawn = 500
        - GE – AuxStor = 30; Withdrawn = 300
        - QH – AuxStor = 1,400; Withdrawn = 7,700
        - QL – AuxStor = 3,000; Withdrawn = 6,400
        - RS – AuxStor = 100; Withdrawn = 500
        - SD – AuxStor = 500; Withdrawn = 1,200
        - SH – AuxStor = 750; Withdrawn = 1,500
        - SK – AuxStor = 300; Withdrawn = 400

### 2017
- Notable acquisitions (collections, journals, databases)
    - 372 monographs purchased
        - 166 items purchased through approval plans and title standing order
        - 177 items purchased through firm order
            - 5 items purchased through firm order using 34265
            - 172 items purchased through firm order using Charles Broadbent Endowment
        - 15 items were rented for short term loans
        - 14 items were purchased through demand driven acquisitions
    - EMBASE––The library conducted a trial for the biomedical database EMBASE during March 2017. In September, Emily Darowski (Psychology Librarian) and I requested and were granted funding through CMDC to acquire a three-year subscription to this database.

### 2016
- **Notable acquisitions (collections, journals, databases)**
    - 268 monographs purchased 
        - 169 items purchased through approval plans and title standing order
        - 73 items purchased through firm order
        - 14 items were rented for short term loans
        - 12 items were purchased through Demand Driven Acquisitions
    - Worked extensively with department faculty to assess journal needs as part of the library’s journal package cancelation and retention project.


### 2015
- **Notable acquisitions (collections, journals, databases)**
    - *BIOSIS Citation Index* – The library upgraded from the BIOSIS Previews database to the BIOSIS Citation Index. This upgraded resource provides expanded citation information for one of the largest biological sciences databases in the world. As part of this upgrade, the library also purchased backfiles to the database from 1955 to 1980, providing access to all available records for the past 60 years.
    - *JSTOR Global Plants* – The library purchased a subscription to JSTOR Global Plants—the world's largest resource of digitized plant specimens.
    - *HBLL Locked Case Reintegration* – All biological sciences collections in the library's locked case were evaluated. These items were either relocated to the general stacks, sent to auxiliary storage, or withdrawn from the library's holdings.
    - *Science and Maps Reference Collection Weeding Project* – All biological sciences print materials in the library's Science and Maps Reference Collection were evaluated to maintain an up-to-date and useful reference collection. Outdated materials were withdrawn from the library. Other materials with research value but that were not likely to be used as reference sources were returned to the circulating stacks or to auxiliary storage.
    - *Demand Driven and Evidence Based Acquisitions* – A substantial number of monographs in the biological sciences were added to the library's collections through demand driven and evidenced based acquisition models. The vast majority of monographs in the biological sciences were purchased through YBP. Many of the ebooks on this approval profile were automatically added as demand driven acquisitions (DDA). When reviewing YBP slips, all selected ebooks were added as DDA, when available. Additionally, evidenced based purchasing plans were used to acquire ebooks in the biological sciences with Wiley and Elsevier.
