---
fund: 34218
fund-name: Italian Studies
tags:
  - Richard Hacken
---

## Overview

The library supports Italian Studies in its full disciplinary breadth: while Italian language and literature form the main core of materials for students studying and researching Italian and for professors teaching and researching Italian, there is broader interdisciplinary involvement. The curriculum and research of Italian Studies also interweave the disciplines of Italian history (in a wide sense: social history, economic history, diplomatic history, religious history, etc.), of Italian politics, and of contemporary and historical Italian culture. A separate major collection fund [34132]({{ site.github.url }}/policies/34132) serves to provide the latter types of materials for Italian Studies (see [separate collection statement]({{ site.github.url }}/policies/34132)), while fund 34218 is largely dedicated to Italian language and literature. The broadening of Italian Studies beyond a narrower language and literature emphasis has been in play at the departmental level since at least the beginning of the 21<sup>st</sup> century.

The library generally seeks to support teaching and research in Italian Studies at the Teaching level. One exception to this is Holocaust Studies, which we collect at the Research Level. A major figure in Italian literature, Primo Levi, was a survivor of Auschwitz; thus Holocaust courses are taught regularly through the Italian Section of the French and Italian Department. This is an example of a multidisciplinary topic that retains ongoing interest and relevance for teaching and research throughout the years.

Some of the areas of Italian teaching and research interest in recent decades, in addition to the Holocaust and Primo Levi, have included topics related to authors including Carlo Goldoni and, of course, Dante Alighieri. The Dante collection is of special utility for students studying the _Inferno_, _Purgatorio_ and _Paradiso_ each year; great attention is paid to canto-by-canto commentaries, which are required for students' papers. Further topics in Italian Studies include Italian monastic theater, Italian women and education, Italian women's social and religious history, and a number of other authors. Materials for certain of these topics, those with multidisciplinary aspects, are acquired in cooperation with other selectors.

The library seeks to support research and teaching through targeted acquisitions, both of new and retrospective materials. Relevance and potential use for teaching and/<wbr>or research are paramount, and a further factor is the quality of scholarship and presentation. For books, both print and digital formats are collected; where there is a choice, the default is for an e-book unless other factors intervene (faculty preference for paper format, need for better resolution of paper maps and illustrations, etc.). Demand-driven acquisition is used where possible, since it saves money and guarantees usage.

## Degree Programs and Collecting Level

- Bachelor of Arts in Italian: Teaching Level
- Bachelor of Arts in Italian Studies: Teaching Level
- Master of Arts in Comparative Studies: Teaching Level

## Departments/<wbr>Disciplines/<wbr>Programs/<wbr>Subject Areas

The Italian Studies collections also reflect the interests of the following departments and programs:

- History Department
- Political Science Department
- Italian Section of French and Italian Department
- Interdisciplinary Humanities Section of Department of Comparative Arts and Letters
- Program of International and Area Studies

Because language, literature and area studies have cross-disciplinary implications, these Italian collections also offer support for research and teaching in other departments, primarily in the Humanities and Social Sciences as well as in related area studies.

## Subject Librarian Annual Collection Reports

### 2018
This year we continued our use of the Torrossa digital library. The cost of an annual update comes partially out of the 34218 fund, but it is money well spent, given the degree to which the digital library has now expanded into a reliable tool for students and faculty. The works of Dante being prime, Italian collecting this year took varying approach angles and unique perspectives to satisfy the needs of Italian students who write essays each semester on the cantos of Inferno, Purgatorio and Paradiso. Just three examples are: geology in the Divine Comedy, Dante’s round trip to paradise, and Dante in China. Of the remaining authors, many of whom are also necessary to collect, Primo Levi is probably the most important, since he is another writer (beside Dante) for whom students in Italian literature classes need to find topics every semester. As a Holocaust survivor who wrote about his experiences in Auschwitz, Levi also provides ample reason to increase our very good Holocaust collection.

### 2017
In keeping with courses currently being taught in Italian, for which student papers are written and professors publish, I increased holdings in primary and secondary literature for Primo Levi, Carlo Goldoni, Alessandro Manzoni and Giacomo Leopardi. Dante, of course, is a constant in Italian literature about whom a vast number of commentaries and literary critiques are written each year, from which I choose those most relevant to our needs. This year one strong area was Dante's political thought. On the linguistic side, we added a number of volumes to the Italian Etymological Lexicon (Lesssico etimologico italiano).

### 2016
- **Notable acquisitions (collections, journals, databases)**
  - English translations of selected Italian works and authors
  - Early modern Italian women's literature
- **Funding adjustments**
  - Reduction in base funding amount of $1000
- **Liaison actions pertaining to collections**
  - Consultation on women's literature during Renaissance and Baroque

### 2015
- **Notable acquisitions (collections, journals, databases)**
  - Concentration on Primo Levi monographs
  - Dante commentaries of individual cantos
  - Expansion of _Torrossa_ digital library's full text platform
  - Expansion of an Italian biographical dictionary
  - National edition of the works of Tasso
- **Funding adjustments**
  - None
- **Liaison actions pertaining to collections**
  - Discussions on Dante commentaries for instruction assignments
