---
fund: 34224
fund-name: Germanic Studies
tags:
  - Richard Hacken
---

## Overview

The library supports Germanic (German, Dutch and Scandinavian) Studies in its full disciplinary breadth: while Germanic languages and literatures form the main core of materials for students studying and researching German, Dutch and Scandinavian topics and for professors teaching and researching them, there is broader interdisciplinary involvement. The curriculum and research of Germanic Studies also interweave the disciplines of history for Germanic countries (in a wide sense: social history, economic history, diplomatic history, religious history, etc.), of politics, and of contemporary and historical culture. A separate major collection fund ([34131]({{ site.github.url }}/policies/34131)) serves to provide the latter types of materials for Germanic Studies (see separate collection statement), while fund 34224 is largely dedicated to Germanic, languages and literatures. The broadening of Germanic Studies beyond a narrower language and literature emphasis has been in play at the departmental level (the German Department and Scandinavian Section of the Department of Comparative Arts and Letters) since at least the beginning of the 21<sup>st</sup> century.

The library generally seeks to support teaching and research in Germanic Studies at the Teaching level. One exception to this is Holocaust Studies, which we collect at the Research Level. This is an example of a multidisciplinary topic that retains ongoing interest and relevance for teaching and research throughout the years.

Some of the areas of Germanic teaching and research interest in recent decades have included topics related to Goethe, Schiller, Rudolf Steiner, fin-de-siècle Viennese writers and culture, Germanic linguistics, German Idealism, as well as Johanna Schopenhauer and other female writers. The latter area is a major focus that has led to the Sophie Project, an online collection of works from German Women Writers that is now part of a collaborative Library-German Department effort. In other Germanic areas, research has included Hans Christian Andersen, Strindberg, Ibsen and Icelandic literature. Materials for certain of these topics, those with multidisciplinary aspects, are acquired in cooperation with other selectors.

The library seeks to support research and teaching through targeted acquisitions, both of new and retrospective materials. Relevance and potential use for teaching and/<wbr>or research are paramount, and a further factor is the quality of scholarship and presentation. For books, both print and digital formats are collected; where there is a choice, the default is for an e-book unless other factors intervene (faculty preference for paper format, need for better resolution of paper maps and illustrations, etc.). Demand-driven acquisition is used where possible, since it saves money and guarantees usage.

## Degree Programs and Collecting Level

- Bachelor of Arts in German: Teaching Level
- Bachelor of Arts in German Studies: Teaching Level
- Bachelor of Arts in German Teaching: Teaching Level
- Master of Arts in Comparative Studies: Teaching Level

## Departments/<wbr>Disciplines/<wbr>Programs/<wbr>Subject Areas

The German Studies collections also reflect the interests of the following departments and programs:

- History Department
- Political Science Department
- German Section of German and Russian Department
- Scandinavian Section of Department of Comparative Arts and Letters
- Interdisciplinary Humanities Section of Department of Comparative Arts and Letters
- Program of International and Area Studies, especially European Studies.

Because language, literature and area studies have cross-disciplinary implications, these Germanic collections also offer support for research and teaching in other departments, primarily in the Humanities and Social Sciences as well as in related area studies.

## Subject Librarian Annual Collection Reports

### 2018
Interest in Franz Kafka has been especially acute this year, due to a centennial of his life and works, and we acquired a number of well-reviewed books on Kafka. An estimated 75% of the titles for the Sophie Project have now been transcribed and added to ScholarsArchive as a part of the Sophie Project, intended to publish open-access works of German women authors. While only 25% of the titles remain, they are mainly the longer works, such as novels, so there is still a ways to go. As in past years, the interest in Nordic detective and crime novels has called for collecting a number of titles in the vernacular and in translation. There was also a large book donation by a former U.S. ambassador to Finland. I consulted relevant teaching faculty and added only those titles likely to be used in class or for research.

### 2017

- **Summary**
    - Similar to the 2017 funding adjustment made with Harrassowitz to give greater leeway in firm order choices for fund 34131, the approval profile for this fund, 34224, was reduced by $3000, allowing added space for personal discretion and priorities. One such priority is the literature of German women authors, which parallels the current Sophie Project being carried out in ScholarsArchive. We can certainly count the hundreds of newly transcribed, formatted and published contributions in [Sophie](https://scholarsarchive.byu.edu/sophie/) as part of our open-access acquisitions in German for 2017. But I would also like to grow our standard print collection on German women's literature - to assist those students who are given the assignment to write papers on a given work or author. Fortunately, the publisher specializing in German women's literature is now expanding the offerings to titles we don't yet have in print, and the prices are very reasonable. During 2018 I will spend a fair percentage of the firm order budget to increase those holdings in German women's literature.

- **Funding adjustments**
    -  Internal adjustment: Harrassowitz approval profile for 34224 materials reduced by $3000 to give budgetary space for more firm order choices.

### 2016

- **Notable acquisitions (collections, journals, databases)**
  - Sophie Collection augmentation – 3,000 titles in PDF format for Scholars Archive
  - Journal: _The Bridge: Journal of the Danish-American Heritage Society_
- **Funding adjustments**
  - Reduction in base funding amount of $1000
- **Liaison actions pertaining to collections**
  - Working out details (and hiring new students) for entry of Sophie Project women's literature (transcription PDFs, original images and metadata) into Scholars Archive

### 2015
- **Notable acquisitions (collections, journals, databases)**
  - Expansion of multivolume sets for German literary lexicon, German author lexicon, German theater lexicon and Goethe dictionary.
  - Full Harry Potter set in Finnish
  - Full sets of Karl Ove Knausgaard's works in Norwegian and in English translation
  - Current Dutch-English dictionary for reference area
  - New Scandinavian newspapers online: _Politiken_ (Denmark) and _Aftenposten_ (Norway)
- **Funding adjustments**
  - None
- **Liaison actions pertaining to collections**
  - Working with German Department to store and curate German women's literature collection in the Institutional Repository.
