---
fund: 34230
fund-name: Science Fiction
tags:
 - Rebecca Walton
---

## Overview

The New Science Fiction and Fantasy collection supports popular reading as well as being a critical resource for anyone interested in creative writing within these genres.

## Research Interests

The New Science Fiction and Fantasy collection supports popular reading as well as being a critical resource for anyone interested in creative writing within these genres. It is very important to be able to read widely within a genre that one is considering publishing in and to see the current publication trends within that area. For this reason, the goal of the New Science Fiction and Fantasy collection is to collect broadly as much of the appropriate literature published within the current year as the budget allows.

## Subject Librarian Annual Collections Report

### 2018
- In 2017 there were a total of 1,245 item checkouts and in house uses from the New Science Fiction &amp; Fantasy collection. This represents an increase of 72 from 2016.
- 329 new books added to the collection
- Books added in 2018: 174 uses of 78 titles
- Books added in 2017: 682 uses of 308 titles

### 2017

- Physical collection shifted October 2017 to provide better patron browsing and discovery of New Science Fiction & Fantasy titles
- In 2017 there were a total of 1,173 item checkouts and in house uses from the New Science Fiction &amp; Fantasy collection. This represents an increase of 276 from 2016.
- 430 new books added to the collection
-Books added in 2017: 451 uses of 172 titles
- *Program assessments and changes*
  - The New Science Fiction and Fantasy currently is featured as a promoted area within the Popular Reading Collection for the first 3 years after acquisition. This is supported by the stats which show a pattern of usage increasing during the second year of being in the collection. It will be important to look at the third year stats next year to determine if the promotional period should be shortened to 2 years.
