---
fund: 34315
fund-name: Home Economics
tags:
 - Rebecca Walton
---

## Overview

The library seeks to support the elective classes within the Family and Consumer Sciences Education and Family Life majors as well as personal development and interests of BYU patrons.

## Research Interests

Cooking, sewing, crafts, family and social topics from general interest nonfiction. This fund collects from the popular nonfiction supporting this area rather than the scholarly nonfiction which is covered by Quinn Galbraith.

## Departments/<wbr>Disciplines/<wbr>Programs/<wbr>Subject Areas:

- Family and Consumer Sciences Education
- Family Life

## Subject Librarian Annual Collections Report

### 2018
- 57 new books added to the collection: 51 cookbooks, 6 books on other Home Ec topics
- Books added in 2018: 81 uses - 62% of books added in 2018 have been used since purchase
- Books added in 2017: 122 uses - 93% of books added in 2017 have been used since purchase
- Books added in 2016: 118 uses – 95% of books added in 2016 have been used since purchase
- Books added in 2015: 107 uses – 100% of books added in 2015 have been used since purchase

### 2017
- 56 new books added to the collection: 51 cookbooks, 5 books on other Home Ec topics
- Books added in 2017: 65 uses - 62% of books added in 2017 have been used since purchase
- Books added in 2016: 113 uses – 84% of books added in 2016 have been used since purchase
- Books added in 2015: 88 uses – 100% of books added in 2015 have been used since purchase

### 2016
- 53 new books added to the collection: 44 cookbooks, 7 books on other Home Ec topics, and 2 books that mistakenly came on approval even though this fund is supposed to have a slip only profile.
- Books added in 2016: 54 uses – 45 checkouts, 9 in house (3 books still in process)
- Books added in 2015: 174 uses – 141 checkouts, 33 in house

### 2015
- 53 new books added to the collection: 43 cookbooks, 10 books on other Home Ec topics
- Books added in 2015 have had a total of 62 circulations so far. A significant number are still in process or were only recently catalogued. I recommend revisiting the circulation stats for these 53 books once a full year of data is available for them.
- *Program assessments and changes*
  - In the past this was primarily being used as a cookbooks budget. When I took it over this year, I decided to broaden the collecting interests to support the other elective classes within the Family Science department as well. Purchases are still heavily weighted toward cookbooks, which receive the majority of the usage.
  - The library seeks to support the elective classes within the Family and Consumer Sciences Education and Family Life majors as well as personal development and interests of BYU patrons.
