---
fund: 34130
fund-name: Area Studies–British
tags:
  - Albert Winkler
---

## Overview
Fund Code 34130 is designed to support teaching, classes, course work, research, and publications in the areas of British, Scotland, Wales, Northern Ireland, and Ireland history at Brigham Young University.  This includes the needs of  faculty, students, and other patrons.  The BYU Library supports all academic levels at the university, but the Fund Code 34130 specifically relates to curricula in the following areas. 
- Roman and Early Medieval Britain,
- Viking and Norman England,
- Late Mediaeval Britain,
- Renaissance and Reformation Britain,
- Tudor and Stuart England,
- Georgian and Victorian Britain,
- Modern Britain in the Twentieth Century and twenty-first centuries 

## Department Support
Fund Code 34130 is specifically designed to support the History Department in all aspects including teaching, research, writing, and publications.

## Genealogy and Local History Support
Since Fund Code 34130 includes local and city histories of England, Scotland, Ireland, and Wales, it may be used in support of genealogy and local histories.

## Other Department Support
Since history overlaps with many other disciplines, Fund Code 34130 may be valuable to other areas of study.  This could include but would not be limited to Anthropology, Religious Studies, Archaeology, Middle Eastern Studies, various languages, Political Science, and International relations.

## Degree Programs Supported:
- American Indian Studies (Minor): Teaching level
- History (BA): Teaching level
- History (Minor): Teaching level
- Family History–Genealogy (BA): Teaching level
- Family History–Genealogy (Minor): Teaching level
- History teaching (BA): Teaching level
- History teaching (Minor): Teaching level
- Social Science teaching (BS): Teaching Level

## Classes Supported: 
- History 200: Historian’s Craft
- History 201: World Civilizations to 1500
- History 202: World Civilizations from 1500
- History 293: World War II in History and Memory
- History 300: Early Middle Ages
- History 303: Reformation: Age of Turmoil
- History 319: Family in Europe
- History 322: Pre-Modern Britain
- History 323: Modern Britain
- History 350: British Family, Local and Social History Research
- History 390R: World War I
- History 390R: Family History Research in Ireland
- History 390R: Advanced British Family History Research
- History 421: English Language Handwriting and Documents
- History 490: Capstone Research Seminar

## History Faculty Research and Teaching Supported:
- Diana Duan
- Aaron Skabelund
- Leslie Hadfield
- Ed Stratford
- Mark Christensen
- Sarah Loose
- Jon Felt
- Jennifer Bussio
- Gary Doxey
- Karen Carter
- Karen Auman
- Mark Choat
- Shawn Miller
- Stewart Anderson
- Johnathan McCollumn
- Evan Ward
- Jeff Shumway
- Spencer McBride
- Sarah Reed
- Amy Harris
- Matthew Mason

## Subject Librarian Annual Collection Reports

### 2018
- The BYU Library supports academic excellence in history, and the history librarian supports course work and research in history using fund codes 34127, 34130, 34140, and 34351.
- Patron input: I seek recommendations from history faculty, students, and other patrons for the purchase of books, journals, and electronic sources to meet their research and educational needs. This includes areas of personal interest, research, teaching, and publications. To accomplish this, I seek to provide relevant resources in a timely manner and to supply relevant and timely library expertise to these assignments.
- Audio Books: Recently there has been a number of requests that audio books be made available.
- This fund code is designated to maintain and improve the library collections dealing with the history of the United Kingdom. This includes British, Scottish, Welsh, and Irish areas from the earliest times to the present. This includes Stone Age, Roman, Medieval, Renaissance, Reformation, Civil War, Restoration, Napoleonic Wars, Victorian Age, World Wars I and II, and the post-war period.
