---
fund: 34300
fund-name: Manufacturing Engineering Technology
file-name: 34300 Manufacturing Engineering Technology.docx
tags:
- David Pixton
---

## I. Overview

This policy covers the Manufacturing Engineering Technology Department within the School of Technology within the Ira A. Fulton College of Engineering and Technology. The Harold B. Lee Library supports the curricular and research needs of the department through monographic purchases and periodical and database subscriptions.

## II. Curriculum and Research

### A) Curriculum

Manufacturing Engineering Technology encompasses the research, planning, design and implementation of production facilities, machine tools, people and systems for the manufacture of discrete products of specified quality with a minimum expenditure of time, labor and materials. The profession ranges from solving specific process problems to deciding where to build a new factory (and how to equip and staff it). Some specific duties include:

- Solving practical problems in manufacturing
- Designing tools and fixtures used with manufacturing processes.
- Managing people and money in projects and processes
- Writing procedures for fabrication and assembly operations.
- Improving the quality and efficiency of an existing production line
- Serving on teams to develop new products, provide expertise on manufacturing questions, and plan manufacturing operations and estimating production costs.

The department is geared toward teaching students how to use certain technologies, methods, and tools to produce affordable products of high quality through coursework that insists upon developing creative and analytical skills as well as communication and interpersonal skills. The program offers a Bachelor of Science degree in Manufacturing Engineering Technology, a MS in Manufacturing Systems, and a joint MS/MBA in Manufacturing Systems through the Ira R. Fulton College of Engineering. There are 8 full-time faculty members in the department.

### B) Research

The department emphasizes development and research in various areas supported by the following labs: machining lab, CNC machine lab, automation lab, welding &amp; foundry lab, quality lab, and a plastics and composites lab which contains two injection molding systems, a plastic extruder, compression molder, a rotational molder, a vacuum former, and composite layup stations. The department sponsors, through the Kennedy Center, a Manufacturing Engineering Technology internship in Asia.

## III. Subject and Formats

### A) Scope

The library collects Manufacturing Engineering Technology monographs and periodicals on theory and practice at a level 4 (research) to support the faculty and students and common texts on a level 2 (selective) to support demand. Other subject areas are also collected on a level 3 (curricular).

### B) Type

Original research, abstracts, reference works are collected. Compendex, the search engine representing the collective indexing work of the Engineering Index® is the preferred index for periodical literature, however a number of other databases provide excellent entries into the literature including ProQuest&#39;s Materials Research Database, ProQuest Research Library: Science and Technology. Popular treatments, textbooks, and course materials are collected selectively. Other types are generally not collected

### C) Format

Monographs, serials in electronic form are collected preferentially. Audiovisual materials are collected selectively. Microforms and manuscripts are generally not collected.

### D) Time

Materials published during the last 10 years are collected extensively. Materials published during the previous 20-30 years are collected very selectively. Materials published prior to 1950 are generally not collected.

### E) Languages

English is the preferred language and is collected extensively. Other languages are generally excluded or collected very selectively based on unique content that has not been translated into English

### F) Geographic Focus

No particular area of the World is favored however most materials come from North America and Europe.

## IV. Other

### A) Related Collections and Overlap

There is overlap in many other areas such as mechanical engineering and design, but are considered part of the collection development policy for this discipline only when applicable. Theory is separate and is generally found only in the Manufacturing Engineering Technology literature.

### B) Cooperative resources and programs

Various consortia arrangements on a library wide scale have been entered into to ensure full text availability of periodicals and other collections.

## V. Classed Analysis

### Manufacturing Engineering Technology

#### Classed Analysis

| **LC Classification** | **Subject** | **Collecting Level** |
| --- | --- | --- |
| TS | Manufacturing Engineering Technology | |
| TS155-194 | Production management. Operations management | Research |
| TS195-198.8 | Packaging | Research |
| TS200-770 | Metal manufactures. Metalworking | Research |
| TS780-788 | Stonework | Teaching |
| TS840-915 | Wood products. Furniture | Research |
| TS920-937 | Chemical processing of wood | Research |
| TS940-1047 | Leather industries. Tanning | Research |
| TS1060-1070 | Furs | Teaching |
| TS1080-1268 | Paper manufacture and trade | Research |
| TS1300-1865 | Textile industries | Research |
| TS1870-1935 | Rubber industry | Research |
| TS1950-1982 | Animal products | Research |
| TS2120-2159 | Cereals and grain. Milling industry | Research |
| TS2220-2283 | Tobacco industry | Teaching |
| TS2284-2288 | Animal feeds and feed mills. Pet food industry | Research |

## Subject Librarian Annual Collection Reports
### 2018
- **Overview**
    - By far, the dominating collection development activity for the Science and Engineering department during 2018 was the collection evaluation project that occupied most of the year, reaching completion in the fall. In the process, I determined to withdraw 14,300 volumes and send an additional 4,000 volumes to auxiliary storage. This project consumed a substantial portion of my time in 2018 (277 hours).
    - Other significant projects relating to collection evaluation include evaluation and re-disposition of 416 titles in AuxStorSer compact shelving, and evaluation of the performance of several individual electronic and print journals. I also began a subscription to the SPIE Digital Library based on significant indication of demand.
- **Activity by account code**
    - 34300 (Industrial Design, Manufacturing Systems Engineering, and Technology &amp; Engineering Studies)
        - Approval plan/DDA/STL purchases: 25
        - Journal cancellations: 7 individual print titles cancelled based on performance and availability elsewhere
    - 34310 (Mechanical Engineering)
        - Approval plan/DDA/STL purchases: 63
        - Faculty book order requests: 3 titles approved for purchase
        - Digital library renewals: SAE Digital Library, ASM Handbook renewed based on performance
        - Journal cancellations: 3 individual electronic titles and 3 individual print titles cancelled based on performance
    - 34312 (Electrical and Computer Engineering)
        - Approval plan/DDA/STL purchases: 40
        - Other monographs: ANSI Z136 standards – purchased 2 standards and laser safety handbook in support of laser lab projects and Capstone projects; Rust programming language book per student/faculty request
        - Digital library subscriptions: SPIE digital library – based on high turnaway data (750 turnaways Jan-Aug 2018), subscribed to this resource using available cancellation funds
        - Journal cancellations: 2 individual electronic titles and 3 individual print titles cancelled based on performance
- **Not purchased**
    - A faculty member in Mechanical Engineering suggested that we consider a subscription to Science Robotics. At a price tag of $3000, the turnaway data (9 uses in 2017) did not support investment at that time.
    - A faculty member in Mechanical Engineering requested a 2 volume Diffusion Handbook to support his ongoing research and teaching. Because this handbook is out of print and not available, this was not purchased. Interlibrary loan satisfied the immediate need. The book set remains on the Active Want list.
    - A faculty member inquired regarding obtaining a site license to Overleaf (online LaTeX editor and compiler that enhances collaboration). I ultimately ended up conversing with OIT, who has made the decision to push this to an individual department decision/funding.
- **Gifts**
    - I assisted the Mechanical Engineering Department in reviewing their collection of theses and dissertations in preparation for their move to the new building. Working together with our Special Collections division and the Scholars Archive manager, we helped them identify which volumes have been digitized and which are already slated to be digitized in an ongoing library project, and we identified volumes that are not in Library Archives. I coordinated with those involved in the ongoing digitization program in Special Collections to ensure inclusion of those journals in the program, and worked with the Special Collections team to obtain missing volumes from Mechanical Engineering.
    - Also associated with the move to the new engineering building, one professor offered a substantial portion of his personal library for consideration by the library. I evaluated his library and accepted 14 of his books into our collection. Other minor gifts were made sporadically over the course of 2018.
- **Access issues**
    - Access to ASM Handbook lapsed in late January due to an unpaid subscription. Root cause was a lack of invoicing from the vendor. Access was restored within a week.
    - Access to AIAA SciTech, AIAA Aviation lapsed in July due to an unpaid subscription. Subscription fee had been previously paid but not credited by vendor. Access was restored after two weeks.
- **Future directions**
    - Various standards have been requested by faculty and students in support of research projects and Capstone programs. Several are available through our existing ASTM Compass resource, which is used regularly. However, ANSI and ISO standards, most of which have no ASTM equivalent, continue to be requested. Currently, my approach is to purchase standards individually. This may warrant further investigation if volume increases.
    - I have asked for a demo and subsequent trial of the McGraw-Hill AccessEngineering digital library, a reference and teaching resource for engineering and computer science students and faculty. This trial should happen sometime during second quarter 2019.
