---
fund: 34127
fund-name: World History
custom-fund: Funds 34127, 34130, 34140, & 34351
custom-fund-name: World History, Area Studies–British, History–U.S., & Western America
file-name: 34127 History.docx
tags:
 - Albert Winkler
---

The BYU Library supports academic excellence in history, and the history librarian supports course work and research in history using fund codes 34127, 34130, 34140, and 34351. The history librarian seeks recommendations from history faculty and students for the purchase of books, journals, and electronic sources to meet their research and educational needs.

The Harold B. Lee Library seeks to serve the needs of its patrons including BYU faculty and students and other members of society in general in the areas of personal interest, research, teaching, and publications. To accomplish these goals, the library seeks to provide relevant resources in a timely manner and to supply relevant and timely library expertise to these assignments.

The Fund Code 34127 is designated to maintain and improve the library collections dealing with World History and areas that support history. World History deals with areas that include more than one country. This includes many significant wars including World War I and World War II. It also supports areas of teaching and research in subjects related to history including numismatics, historiography, civilization, genealogy, and heraldry.

The Fund Code 34130 is designated to maintain and improve the library collections dealing with the history of the United Kingdom. This includes British, Scottish, Welsh, and Irish areas from the earliest times to the present. This includes Stone Age, Roman, Medieval, Renaissance, Reformation, Civil War, Restoration, Napoleonic Wars, Victorian Age, World Wars I and II, and the post-war period.

The Fund Code 34140 is designed to maintain and improve the library collections dealing with the history of the United States from the age of exploration and colonial times to the present. In recent decades, new research interests and course of study have emphasized significant areas and include the topics related to numerous areas including Colonial, New Nation, Age of Jackson, Western Migration, Local History, Ante Bellum, Civil War, Reconstruction, Gilded Age, World War I, Roaring Twenties, Great Depression, World War II, Korean War, Cold War, Vietnam War, and Age of Terror. Areas of emphasis include studies on Women and Gender, Religion, Emigration and Immigration, Civil Rights that include Native Americans, African Americans, and Latinos.

In addition to these areas, the Fund Code 34140 also supports the collection dealing with state and local history. There is a special emphasis on Utah and other states in the American West along with all the remaining states and possessions of the United States government.

The Fund Code 34151 is designed to maintain and improve the library collections dealing with the history of the American West. This includes state and local histories in all areas west of the Rocky Mountains. This fund code is also designed to support collections dealing with emigration and immigration, Indian Wars, military posts, settlement patters, development of transportation, conservation, and water use.

Because history has many cross-disciplinary ramifications, these collections offer support for research and teaching in numerous other areas including Religion, Genealogy/Family History, Geography, English Language and literature, Political Science and International Relations, Philosophy, Anthropology, and Archaeology.

## Subject Librarian Annual Collection Reports

### 2018

- **34127**
    - This fund code is designated to maintain and improve the library collections dealing with World History and areas that support history.  World History deals with areas that include more than one country.  This includes many significant wars including World War I and World War II.  It also supports areas of teaching and research in subjects related to history including numismatics, historiography, civilization, genealogy, and heraldry.
- **34130**
    - This fund code is designated to maintain and improve the library collections dealing with the history of the United Kingdom.  This includes British, Scottish, Welsh, and Irish areas from the earliest times to the present.  This includes Stone Age, Roman, Medieval, Renaissance, Reformation, Civil War, Restoration, Napoleonic Wars, Victorian Age, World Wars I and II, and the post-war period.
- **34140**
    - This fund code has the largest amount of money in it and is designed to maintain and improve the library collections dealing with the history of the United States from the age of exploration and colonial times to the present.  In recent decades, new research interests and course of study have emphasized significant areas and include the topics related to numerous areas including Colonial, New Nation, Age of Jackson, Western Migration, Local History, Ante Bellum, Civil War, Reconstruction, Gilded Age, World War I, Roaring Twenties, Great Depression, World War II, Korean War, Cold War, Vietnam War, and Age of Terror.  Areas of emphasis include studies on Women and Gender, Religion, Emigration and Immigration, Civil Rights that include Native Americans, African Americans, and Latinos.
    - In addition to these areas, the Fund Code 34140 also supports the collection dealing with state and local history.  There is a special emphasis on Utah and other states in the American West along with all the remaining states and possessions of the United States government.
- **34151**
    - This fund code has relatively small amounts of money in it, and it is designed to maintain and improve the library collections dealing with the history of the American West.  This includes state and local histories in all areas west of the Rocky Mountains.  This fund code is also designed to support collections dealing with emigration and immigration, Indian Wars, military posts, settlement patters, development of transportation, conservation, and water use.
    - Because history has many cross-disciplinary ramifications, these collections offer support for research and teaching in numerous other areas including Religion, Genealogy/Family History, Geography, English Language and literature, Political Science and International Relations, Philosophy, Anthropology, and Archaeology.
