---
fund: 34127
fund-name: World History
custom-fund: Funds 34127
custom-fund-name: World History
tags:
 - Albert Winkler
---

## Overview
Fund Code 34127 is designed to support teaching, classes, course work, and research in the areas of World History at Brigham Young University including faculty, students, and other patrons. The BYU Library supports all academic levels at the university, but the Fund Code 34127 specifically relates to curricula in the following areas.

Topics that cover more than one country including:
- Ancient and Modern Civilizations
- World Histories
- World War I
- World War II
- Subjects related to history including:
- Historiography
- Numismatics
- Diplomatics
- Calendar
- Inscriptions, Epigraphy
- Civilization
- Heraldry
- Biography

## Department Support
Fund Code 34127 is specifically designed to support the History Department in all aspects including teaching, research, writing, and publications. 

## Other department support
Since history overlaps with many other disciplines, Fund Code 34127 may be valuable to other areas of study. This could include but would not be limited to Anthropology, Religious Studies, Archaeology, Middle Eastern Studies, various languages, Political Science, and International relations.

## History Degree Programs Supported
- American Indian Studies (Minor): Teaching level
- History (BA): Teaching level
- History (Minor): Teaching level
- Family History–Genealogy (BA): Teaching level
- Family History–Genealogy (Minor): Teaching level
- History teaching (BA): Teaching level
- History teaching (Minor): Teaching level
- Social Science teaching (BS): Teaching Level

## Classes Supported
- History 200: Historian’s Craft
- History 201: World Civilizations to 1500
- History 202: World Civilizations from 1500
- History 293: World War II in History and Memory
- History 390R: World War I
- History 490: Capstone Research Seminar

## History Faculty Research and Teaching Supported
- Cameron McCoy
- Karen Auman
- Mark Choat
- Karen Carter
- Sarah Loose
- John Felt
- Jennifer Bussio
- Gary Doxy
- Shawn Miller
- Stewart Anderson
- Johnathan McCollumn
- Evan Ward
- Jeff Shumway

## Subject Librarian Annual Collection Reports

### 2018
- Patron input: I seek recommendations from history faculty, students, and other patrons for the purchase of books, journals, and electronic sources to meet their research and educational needs. This includes areas of personal interest, research, teaching, and publications. To accomplish this, I seek to provide relevant resources in a timely manner and to supply relevant and timely library expertise to these assignments.
- Audio Books: Recently there has been a number of requests that audio books be made available.
- This fund code is designated to maintain and improve the library collections dealing with World History and areas that support history. World History deals with areas that include more than one country. This includes many significant wars including World War I and World War II. It also supports areas of teaching and research in subjects related to history including numismatics, historiography, civilization, genealogy, and heraldry.
