---
fund: 34220
fund-name: Linguistics and TESOL
tags:
  - Richard Hacken
---

## Overview

The library supports Linguistics and TESOL (Teaching of English to Speakers of Other Languages) in the sense of general linguistics. Linguistics for specific language families and branches are supported by the relevant language department specialist, e.g., the Spanish subject specialist for Spanish linguistics, the Asian subject specialist for Asian linguistics, Eng English language subject specialist for English linguistics, etc.). Hence, the overall support for Linguistics (writ large) is divided between this 34220 general fund and the individual funds of separate collections. In addition, there is a lot of interdisciplinary involvement for thematic sectors of general linguistics (psycholinguistics, sociolinguistics, anthropological linguistics, etc.), most of which is subsumed under this fund. This fund also supports general, widely applicable materials on language acquisition, while an appropriate language subject specialist funds books or journals on language acquisition for a specific language. In the case of TESOL (Teaching of English to Speakers of Other Languages) however, this Linguistics budget is the fund supplier. TESOL and language acquisition are major teaching and research areas for the BYU campus.

The library generally seeks to support teaching and research in Linguistics and TESOL at the Teaching level. One exception to this is Mormon Studies, which we collect at the Comprehensive Level, for those who wish to study Mormonism from the linguistic angle. This is an example of a local multidisciplinary topic that retains ongoing interest and relevance for teaching and research throughout the years.

Some of the areas of Linguistic teaching and research interest beyond TESOL and language acquisition in recent decades have included topics related to corpus linguistics; second-language writing; computational linguistics, including data-driven phonology and morphology; language planning; sociolinguistics; anthropological linguistics, including the documentation of endangered languages; semiotics and translation studies. Materials for certain of these topics, those with multidisciplinary aspects as mentioned earlier, are acquired in cooperation with other selectors.

The library seeks to support research and teaching through targeted acquisitions, both of new and retrospective materials. Relevance and potential use for teaching and/<wbr>or research are paramount, and a further factor is the quality of scholarship and presentation. For books, both print and digital formats are collected; where there is a choice, the default is for an e-book unless other factors intervene (faculty preference for paper format, need for better resolution of paper maps and illustrations, etc.). Demand-driven acquisition is used where possible, since it saves money and guarantees usage.

## Degree Programs and Collecting Level

- Bachelor of Arts in Linguistics: Teaching Level
- Bachelor of Arts in Linguistics with TESOL Certification: Teaching Level
- Master of Arts in Linguistics: Teaching Level

## Departments/<wbr>Disciplines/<wbr>Programs/<wbr>Subject Areas

The Linguistics and TESOL collections also reflect selected interests of the following departments and programs:

- Various language and literature departments
- School of Education
- Department of Psychology
- Department of Sociology
- Digital Humanities Minor
- Program of International and Area Studies

Because language studies have cross-disciplinary implications, other library collections also offer support for research and teaching in other academic departments, primarily in the Humanities and Social Sciences.

## Subject Librarian Annual Collection Reports

### 2018
An ongoing topic for research in a number of language departments (including Linguistics)  is translation as seen from various angles, and this is an area to which I paid particular care during the year. Applied linguistics, in particular second language acquisition, remained a primary collection focus as well. We acquired a good number of series for online Oxford handbooks and Routledge handbooks covering varied aspects of language and language use. I also oversaw an assessment of linguistic theses (in cooperation with the Linguistics Department, which had piled up many, many surplus theses) and added a number of those only in cases where additional copies were required for either stacks or special collections.

### 2017
In the course of 2017 we acquired Ethnologue, a database that provides detailed information on languages and language families, their countries, locations, speakers, populations, scripts, official policies, status, classifications, dialects, use, glosses and maps. I supplemented this database with monographs on language policy and endangered languages. Following the wishes of certain Linguistics and TESOL professors, I continue to add the latest research on language testing and assessment. Translation studies form another area for special attention. This year we acquired a good number of Routledge Handbooks in various sub-disciplines of applied linguistics. In the balance between applied linguistics and theoretical linguistics, I swing strongly to the applied over the theoretical in keeping with research and curriculum at BYU, though I watch for seminal and important works in theoretical linguistics. If there is one broad area of interest, it is language acquisition.

### 2016

- **Notable acquisitions (collections, journals, databases)**
  - Materials on language policy and endangered languages
  - Reference grammars for Native American languages
  - Continued focus on second-language acquisition and TESOL
- **Funding adjustments**
  - Reduction in base funding amount of $1000
- **Liaison actions pertaining to collections**
  - Consultations with specialists for language policy and endangered languages

### 2015

- **Notable acquisitions (collections, journals, databases)**
  - _Oxford Handbooks Online – Linguistics_
  - Two new journals: _Language and Sociocultural Theory_; _Writing on Edge_
  - Increased purchases of materials on translation and interpreting
  - _Routledge Encyclopedia of Translation Technology_ (print and online versions)
  - Focus on second-language acquisition and TESOL
  - Various Springer, de Gruyter, Routledge and Wiley linguistic handbooks
- **Funding adjustments**
  - None
- **Liaison actions pertaining to collections**
	- Discussion on needs for corpus linguistics and other digital humanities
	- Consultation on needs for materials regarding translation theory and practice
