---
fund: 34222
fund-name: French Studies
tags:
  - Richard Hacken
---

## Overview

The library supports French Studies in its full disciplinary breadth: while French language and literature form the main core of materials for students studying and researching French and for professors teaching and researching French, there is broader interdisciplinary involvement. The curriculum and research of French Studies also interweave the disciplines of French history (in a wide sense: social history, economic history, diplomatic history, religious history, etc.), of French politics, and of contemporary and historical French culture. A separate major collection fund ([34132]({{ site.github.url }}/policies/34132)) serves to provide the latter types of materials for French Studies (see separate collection statement), while fund 34222 is largely dedicated to French language and literature. The broadening of French Studies beyond a narrower language and literature emphasis has been in play at the departmental level since at least the beginning of the 21<sup>st</sup> century.

The library generally seeks to support teaching and research in French Studies at the Teaching level.

Some of the areas of French teaching and research interest in recent decades have included topics related to Clément Marot and François Rabelais (the focus of two professors' teaching and research), Zola, as well as writers of French-Canadian and francophone African literature (at present the director of the African Studies program is herself a member of the French Department). There is also heavy interest in 19<sup>th</sup> century French literature. Further French topics include sports in literature, _faux_ ruins in literature and philosophy, the sacred in literature, French film, Parisian studies, and the juxtaposition of literature and science. Materials for certain of these topics, those with multidisciplinary aspects, are acquired in cooperation with other selectors.

The library seeks to support research and teaching through targeted acquisitions, both of new and retrospective materials. Relevance and potential use for teaching and/<wbr>or research are paramount, and a further factor is the quality of scholarship and presentation. For books, both print and digital formats are collected; where there is a choice, the default is for an eBook unless other factors intervene (faculty preference for paper format, need for better resolution of paper maps and illustrations, etc.). Demand-driven acquisition is used where possible, since it saves money and guarantees usage.

## Degree Programs and Collecting Level

- Bachelor of Arts in French: Teaching Level
- Bachelor of Arts in French Studies: Teaching Level
- Master of Arts in French Studies: Teaching Level
- Bachelor of Arts in French Teaching: Teaching Level
- Master of Arts in French Teaching: Teaching Level
- Master of Arts in Comparative Studies: Teaching Level

## Departments/<wbr>Disciplines/<wbr>Programs/<wbr>Subject Areas

The French Studies collections also reflect the interests of the following departments and programs:

- History Department
- Political Science Department
- French Section of French and Italian Department
- Interdisciplinary Humanities Section of Department of Comparative Arts and Letters
- Program of International and Area Studies, especially European Studies

Because language, literature and area studies have cross-disciplinary implications, these French collections also offer support for research and teaching in other departments, primarily in the Humanities and Social Sciences as well as in related area studies.

## Subject Librarian Annual Collection Reports

### 2018
In addition to the traditional French writers in France, even including popular writers such as Marc Levy, the collection has increasingly been in need of Francophone writers from Caribbean (Martinique), West African (Senegal, Benin) and North African countries (Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia). These are areas that grew to a good degree during the year. For classroom tips on teaching literature of certain authors, we acquired a number of Modern Language Association titles such as _Approaches to Teaching Hugo’s Les Misérables_ and for similar authors and works. With the arrival of two new professors with interests in French linguistics and French teaching, the collection necessarily grew in those directions as well. More books were requested and collected on academic approaches to the comic series of _Astérix_.

### 2017
In keeping with faculty requests and following our bibliographic "Turn to Africa" of 2016 (see C.D. Policy for 2016), our francophone African literature collection - including the writings of Algeria and Morocco in North Africa - continues to grow with primary and secondary works; this comes both from an enhanced approval profile with Amalivre, our Parisian vendor, and from firm orders. Meanwhile, the linguistic and literary needs of Mother France are not neglected. This year we increased our holdings on and by, among others, André Gide, Balzac, Baudelaire, Camus, Chateaubriand, and the rest of the French alphabet. An Old French dictionary fills the needs of our medieval specialist and his students.

### 2016
- **Notable acquisitions (collections, journals, databases)**
  - Expansion of collections for history, politics and culture of French overseas possessions (Caribbean and Pacific) and of former French colonies (Africa)
  - Journal backsets: _Le Téléphonoscope: Bulletin des Amis d'Albert Robida_
- **Funding adjustments**
  - Internal approval plan distribution of funds: adding $2000 for literary and history materials from French-speaking Africa in lieu of same funds for other French areas.
- **Liaison actions pertaining to collections**
  - Close cooperation on further development of francophone African collection

### 2015
- **Notable acquisitions (collections, journals, databases)**
  - Expanded coverage of monographs on literature of late 19<sup>th</sup> century
  - _The Oxford Handbook of the French Revolution_
  - _Companion to Contemporary French Cinema_
  - _New Oxford Companion to Literature in French_ (online format)
- **Funding adjustments**
  - None
- **Liaison actions pertaining to collections**
  - Consultation on film research and curricular needs for French cinema
